{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c87843;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23360\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CQI-9 \
\
Special Process: Heat Treat \
System Assessment \
4th Edition \
\
              www.AlAG.org \
AIAG          (877) 275-2424 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                       CQI-9 \
                                                          Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                                      Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 ABOUT AIAG \
\
                                              Purpose Statement \
 Founded in 1982, AlAG is a globally recognized organization where OEMs and suppliers unite to address \
 and resolve issues affecting the worldwide automotive supply chain. AIAG's goals are to reduce cost and \
complexity through collaboration; improve product quality, health, safety and the environment; and \
 optimize speed to market throughout the supply chain. \
                                              AIAG Organization \
 AlAG is made up of a board of directors, an executive director, executives on loan from member \
companies, associate directors, a full-time staff, and volunteers serving on project teams. Directors, \
department managers, and program managers plan, direct and coordinate the association's activities \
 under the direction of the executive director. \
                                                 AIAG Projects \
 Volunteer committees focus on business processes or supporting technologies and methodologies. They \
conduct research and develop, publish, and provide training on standards, conventions, standard \
business practices, white papers, and guidelines in the areas of automatic identification, CAD/CAM, \
EDI/electronic commerce, continuous quality improvement, health focus, materials and project \
management, occupational health & safety, returnable containers and packaging systems, \
transportation/customs and truck & heavy equipment. \
         AIAG PUBLICATIONS \
         An AlAG publication reflects a consensus of those substantially concerned with its scope and provisions. An \
         AlAG publication is intended as a guide to aid the manufacturer, the consumer, and the public. The existence of \
         an AlAG publication does not in any respect preclude anyone from manufacturing, marketing, purchasing, or \
         using products, processes, or procedures not conforming to the publication. \
         CAUTIONARY NOTICE \
         AlAG publications are subject to periodic review and users are cautioned to obtain the latest editions. \
         MAINTENANCE PROCEDURE \
         Recognizing that this AlAG publication may not cover all circumstances, AlAG has established a maintenance \
         procedure. Please refer to the Maintenance Request Form at the back of this document to submit a request. \
                                                   Published by: \
                                         Automotive Industry Action Group \
                                                 4400 Town Center \
                                             Southfield, Michigan 48033 \
                                     Phone: (248) 358-3570 \'b7 Fax: (248) 358-3253 \
         APPROVAL STATUS \
         The AIAG Quality Steering Committee and designated stakeholders approved this document for publication in \
         June 2020. \
 AIAG COPYRIGHT AND TRADEMARK NOTICE: \
 The Automotive Industry Action Group copyrights the contents of all published materials unless otherwise indicated. Copyright is not \
claimed as to any part of an original work prepared by a U.S. or state government officer or employee as part of the person's official \
duties. All rights are preserved by ALAG, and content may not be altered or disseminated, published, or transferred in part of such \
content. The information is not to be sold in part or whole to anyone within your organization or to another company. Copyright \
infringement is a violation of federal law subject to criminal and civil penalties. AIAG and the Automotive Industry Action Group are \
registered service marks of the Automotive Industry Action Group. \
 @ 2020 Automotive Industry Action Group \
ISBN #: 978       1       60534    449      2 \
\
                                                                                                                \'a3 \
\
                                                                                                               -1- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                             AIAG \
\
    FOREWORD \
\
    Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) committees are made up of volunteers from member \
    companies in the automotive industry. The work of preparing process audits is done by ALAG technical \
    committees. \
    The main task of technical committees is to prepare automotive standards and system requirements. Draft \
    documents adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the Steering Committee for review and \
    consensus approval. Publication of the documents requires approval by the Quality Steering Committee. \
    The Quality Steering Committee would like to acknowledge and thank the following individuals and their \
    companies who have contributed time and effort to the development of this document. \
\
    James Hawthorne - Acument Global Technologies North America \
    Dean Higdon - Acument Global Technologies North America \
    Dr. Gerd J. Brockmann - Alsoswiss GmbH \
    John Vander Woude - Benteler Automobiltechnik GmbH \
    Curt Holmes - Commercial Steel Treating Corporation \
    Darrell Rydzewski - Controls Service, Inc. \
    Justin Rydzewski - Controls Service, Inc. \
    Robert Hursh - Dana Inc. \
    Stephen Toltesi - Eaton Corporation \
    Pete Batche - Emerald Steel Processing \
    Ed Rahe - FCA, North America \
    Jake Sloan - FCA, North America (formerly) \
    Suranjeeta Dhar - Ford Motor Company \
    Medina Kaknjo - Ford Motor Company \
    Peter Schiefer - Ford-Retired 2018, Germany, AWT-Member \
    Robert Ferry - FPM Heat Treating \
    Rick Metcalf - General Motors Company, North America \
    Randall Lewis - GKN Driveline \
    Virender Choudhri - MAHLE International GmbH \
    Philip Mikula - P.C. Mikula Consulting, LLC \
    Willard Schultz - Peterson American Corporation \
    Ken Steele - Peterson Spring \
    Daniel Aldea - ZF Friedrichshafen, AG \
    Jeff Martin - ZF Friedrichshafen, AG \
\
    Jens Wueppenhorst - ZF Friedrichshafen, AG \
\
-2- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                       CQI-9 \
                                                 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 CHANGES TO CQI-9 4TH EDITION \
\
 The Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment, 4th edition contains some new requirements, \
changed requirements, and clarifications that the supply organization will need to consider in making its \
self-assessment. This 4th edition is a collaborative work of OEM, Tier 1 suppliers, heat treat suppliers, and \
calibration companies that service the heat treat industry. Below is a summary of the important changes in \
this 4th edition. \
\
Introduction Guidelines / Requirements \
    \'b7   Assessor qualifications for conducting HTSA have been refined. \
    \'b7 Exceptions to Section 4 of the Process Tables have been refined under Other Requirements in the \
        Introduction. (Reference 2.15 in the HTSA). \
    \'b7   Cover sheet has been reformatted. \
Pyrometry \
    \'b7   Added a prefix to the Pyrometry section numbering system. \
    \'b7 \'b7           reporting requirements updated. \
    \'b7 RTDs are now included in the thermocouple section. \
    \'b7   Added Notes 6 and 7 to Table P3.1.5. \
           o   Note 6. Under no circumstance shall any expendable base metal thermocouple be used \
               beyond one year from date of first use. Under no circumstance shall any non-expendable \
               base metal thermocouple be used beyond two years from date of first use. \
           o   Note 7. Resident thermocouples if used for Probe Method A and Probe Method B shall \
               be replaced after 6 months for temperatures below or equal to 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF) and after 3 \
               months for temperatures above 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'b0F). \
    \'b7   Added note to P3.2.1. \
           o   Note:    Analog instrumentation shall be replaced with digital instrumentation within \
               three years of issued date of CQI-9 Fourth Edition. \
    \'b7   P3.2.3 Max allowable offset increased. \
    \'b7 Revised Note 1 of Table 3.2.1. \
           o   Note 1. Per P3.2.4.3.1 the frequency may be every six months provided that the \
               SAT is performed monthly per Probe Method A (per P3.3.4.1) AND the multi-point \
               calibration is employed for the instrument. \
    \'b7 Grace periods defined in Calibrations, SAT, and TUS sections. \
    \'b7 Revised P3.3.4.1.5    Resident SAT thermocouples shall be non-expendable and of a different type \
       than the sensor being tested. Only Types N, B, R and S are allowed as resident SAT thermocouples. \
    \'b7 Expanded guidance and refined requirements regarding instances in which traditional TUS testing \
       is not possible or practical due to furnace design characteristics (e.g. property surveys). \
    \'b7 Revised formula for calculating the required number of TUS test thermocouples for large furnace \
       volumes (reference Table P3.4.1, Note #1). \
    \'b7 Revised P3.4.3.1      TUS Methods: Batch/Chamber furnaces shall be surveyed so that the volume \
       defined as the qualified work zone is tested. For Batch/Chamber furnaces with multiple, \
       independently controlled chambers (e.g. multiple control zones and qualified work zones), the \
       performance of a TUS shall be required for each individual chamber. The TUS test thermocouples \
       shall be arranged three dimensionally (Volumetric Method) as illustrated in Figure P3.4.1. \
    \'b7 Reduced the number of TUS test thermocouples required for qualified work zone widths less than \
       0.3m (1ft). \
\
                                                                                              -3- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                AIAG \
\
    HTSA Questions \
        \'b7   HTSA format enhanced. \
        \'b7   Question 1.6. \
                o    Authorization shall be defined to a responsible person (see 1.1) for establishing process \
                    specification for the heat treatment of the products with the available equipment. \
                o   Changes in process specification shall be documented, reviewed, and approved. \
         \'b7 Question 2.15. \
                o   Any exceptions to test frequencies specified in the process tables shall be approved by the \
                    Customer in writing. \
         \'b7 Questions 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 in the HTSA have been revised to include more detail. \
         \'b7 Question 3.16. \
                 o Signature monitor or energy monitor shall be used to monitor energy or power to the part \
                    and record all out of control events. \
    Process Tables \
         \'b7   Test equipment calibrations change: \
                 o Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated \
                    annually at a minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or \
                    approved equivalent standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the \
                    applicable standard. \
         \'b7 Calibration requirement removed for refractometers. \
        \'b7   Generators shall be continuously monitored and recorded. Sign-off required for each shift for \
            generators. An alarm system will satisfy the sign-off requirement (for applicable Process Tables). \
        \'b7   A3.5 - Added "Daily" frequency requirement for continuous furnaces. \
         \'b7   A3.9 - Defined requirements for "Gas quench" systems. \
        \'b7   B4.5 - Defined inspection requirements for "White layer/compound zone (when specified)". \
         \'b7   C3.4 \
                 o Quench Media - Sprayed:          Media Flow Rate and Pressure shall be monitored with \
                    alarm system set per acceptable limits. In absence of alarm system, sign-off every 2 hours \
                    and at the end of the cycle, or each cycle for processes under 2 hours satisfies this \
                    requirement. Nozzle pattern (number and direction) are to be defined, verified and logged. \
                o    Quench Media - Forced Air:     Media Flow Rate shall be monitored with alarm system \
                    set per acceptable limits. In absence of alarm system, sign-off every 2 hours and at the end \
                    of the cycle, or each cycle for processes under 2 hours satisfies this requirement. \
                    Distribution pattern is to be defined, verified and logged. \
                 o   Quench Media - Submerged:      Continuous monitor of level with alarm        or daily \
                     verification. \
         \'b7   C4.1. \
                 o   Batch:       For hardness testing each batch or furnace load. For other destructive test \
                    methods, daily per furnace unless specified by Customer to be checked with greater \
                    frequency, e.g. each batch. \
                 o   Continuous: Every 4 hours for hardness testing. For other destructive testing methods, daily \
                    per furnace unless specified by Customer to be checked with greater frequency, e.g. each \
                    batch. \
        \'b7   D2.1 - Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
        \'b7   D2.2 - Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
\
-4- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                     CQI-9 \
                                               Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                       Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
   \'b7 D3.3 - Monitor part temperature (when specified). Note: This does not replace the requirement for \
      energy or signature monitors. \
   \'b7 G3.4 - Added "Daily" frequency requirement for Atmosphere Generators. \
   \'b7 H1.3 - Vacuum monitoring devices shall be calibrated annually or verified annually against a \
      calibrated master. The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum annually per \
      applicable ASTM, NIST, ISO or national equivalent standards. \
  \'b7   H1.4 - Gas ratio controllers for atmosphere delivery shall be calibrated annually or verified \
      annually against a calibrated master. Alternatively, using a Pre-mixed gas of Certified Composition \
      satisfies this requirement. The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum \
      annually per applicable ASTM, NIST, ISO or national equivalent standards. \
   \'b7 H1.5 - Pre-Mixed Gases shall have a Certificate of Ratio of Gas Mixture and Gas Purity with each \
      shipment. \
   \'b7 H1.8 - The vessel shall achieve a leak up rate of 90 microns Hg per hour or less and shall be verified \
      weekly. \
  \'b7   H3.4 - Verify Process Gas Mixture settings each batch. \
  \'b7   H4.5 - Defined inspection requirements for "White layer/compound zone (when specified)". \
  \'b7   Process Table I added and renamed "Hot Stamping". \
  \'b7   13.9 - Defined quench process monitoring requirements for "Supplemental Cooling Water - \
      Temperature". \
  \'b7   13.10 - Defined quench process monitoring requirements for "Supplemental Cooling Water -Flow \
      Rate". \
\
                                                                                            -5- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                       AIAG \
\
    Table of Contents \
\
   ABOUT AIAG                                                                               1 \
                                                                                            2 \
   FOREWORD \
\
   CHANGES TO CQI-9 4TH EDITION                                                             3 \
   INTRODUCTION.                                                                            7 \
\
      GENERAL                                                                               7 \
     INTEGRATING NEW INSPECTION DEVICES BETWEEN REVISIONS OF CQI-9                          7 \
      PROCESS APPROACH.                                                                      7 \
     HEAT TREAT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT GOALS                                                     7 \
      ASSESSMENT PROCESS                                                                    8 \
     USE OF CQI-9, HTSA, AND PROCESS TABLES                                                 8 \
      ASSESSOR QUALIFICATIONS                                                               .8 \
      OTHER REQUIREMENTS                                                                    8 \
\
    1 SCOPE                                                                                 10 \
\
      1.1 GENERAL                                                                          10 \
      1.2 APPLICATION                                                                       10 \
      1.3 REFERENCE                                                                        11 \
\
    2 THE HEAT TREAT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE                                            12 \
\
      INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE COVER SHEET                                           13 \
      INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING SECTIONS 1-3                                              16 \
      SECTION 1 - MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY & QUALITY PLANNING                              17 \
      SECTION 2 - FLOOR AND MATERIAL HANDLING RESPONSIBILITY.                               23 \
      SECTION 3 - EQUIPMENT                                                                 27 \
      P3.1 THERMOCOUPLES                                                                   33 \
      P3.2 INSTRUMENTATION                                                                 40 \
      P3.3 SYSTEM ACCURACY TEST (SAT)                                                       45 \
      P3.4 TEMPERATURE UNIFORMITY SURVEY (TUS)                                             56 \
      INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE JOB AUDIT.                                           66 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE A - CARBURIZING / CARBONITRIDING / CARBON RESTORATION / HARDENING / AUSTEMPERING \
    / MARTEMPERING / TEMPERING / PRECIPITATION HARDENING - AGING.                          .69 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE B - NITRIDING (GAS) AND FERRITIC-NITROCARBURIZING (GAS OR SALT)          74 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE C - ALUMINUM HEAT TREATING                                               .78 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE D - INDUCTION HEAT TREATING                                              81 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE E - ANNEALING / NORMALIZING / STRESS-RELIEVING                           84 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE F - LOW PRESSURE PROCESSING (CARBURIZING / CARBONITRIDING / NEUTRAL HARDENING) .. 88 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE G - SINTER HARDENING.                                                    .. 91 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE H - ION NITRIDING ..                                                     95 \
\
    PROCESS TABLE I - HOT STAMPING.                                                        98 \
\
    GLOSSARY OF TERMS                                                                      102 \
\
-6- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                   Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 INTRODUCTION \
\
 General \
 The work of preparing CQI-9 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment (HTSA), Fourth Edition, \
was completed by the AIAG Heat Treat Work Group. These heat treat requirements are complementary to \
customer and product standards. \
English is the official language of the AIAG CQI-9 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment. If \
there are any inconsistencies or contradictions as a result of a CQI-9 translation, the English version shall \
prevail. \
The HTSA can be used to assess an organization's ability to meet the requirements in this assessment, as \
well as customer, regulatory, and the organization's own requirements. \
In the HTSA; the word "shall" indicates a requirement for purposes of the system assessment. Failure to \
meet the requirements results in an assessment that is either "Not Satisfactory" or "Needs Immediate \
Action". The word "should" indicates a recommendation. Where the term "such as" is used, any \
suggestions given are for guidance only. \
In the HTSA the term "procedure" indicates documented instructions that are available to all personnel on \
every shift. In example, procedures may include work instructions, consensus standards, operation \
manuals and equipment manuals. The examples can be used independently or in any combination to \
satisfy the term "procedure." \
\
Integrating New Inspection Devices Between Revisions of CQI-9 \
 Advancements in technology are such that the introduction of new process or product inspection and \
control equipment may occur between the release of CQI-9 editions. \
 The intent of this document requires that the practices related to calibration and verification of devices not \
specifically covered in the current CQI-9 edition be compliant to consensus standards or the approved \
manufacturer's procedures. \
\
Process Approach \
 The HTSA supports the automotive process approach as described in IATF 16949. \
\
Heat Treat System       Assessment Goals \
 The goal of the HTSA is the development of a heat treat management system that provides for continual \
improvement, emphasizing defect prevention and the reduction of variation and waste in the supply chain. \
 The HTSA, coupled with an internationally recognized quality management system and applicable \
customer-specific requirements, defines the fundamental requirements for heat treat management systems. \
The HTSA is intended to provide a common approach to a heat treat management system for automotive \
production and service part organizations. \
\
                                                                                      . - 7- \
<<<\page \
\
             CQI-9 \
             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
             Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
            Assessment Process \
            Ongoing assessments shall be conducted, at a minimum, annually, unless otherwise specified by the \
            customer, to ensure continuous compliance with the HTSA. Each assessment shall include a review of the \
            organization's systems using the HTSA. Successive Job Audits (Section 4.0 of this document) shall \
            sample parts from different automotive component manufacturers that require compliance to the HTSA \
            document. \
            The assessment shall use the process approach to auditing as identified by the requirements of IATF 16949. \
\
            Use of CQI-9, HTSA, and Process Tables \
            CQI-9 HTSA and Process Tables address the most common thermal processes employed by the \
           automotive industry. Due to the vast differences in the various thermal processes currently available, it \
           may be necessary to incorporate requirements across the provided process tables. \
            The assessor has the availability to employ requirements from multiple Process Tables if an element of \
           the thermal process being assessed requires such. \
= \
\
            Assessor Qualifications \
            Assessor or assessing team shall collectively have the following specific experience to conduct the HEAT \
            TREAT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT: \
                   1. Assessor shall possess heat treating knowledge. Evidence shall include a minimum of 5 \
                       years' experience in heat treating or a combination of formal metallurgical education and heat \
                      treating experience totaling a minimum of 5 years. \
\
                   2. Assessor shall be able to demonstrate understanding of applicable quality management \
                      system (e.g. ISO 9001, VDA and IATF 16949) requirements related to the scope of the \
                       assessment. \
\
                   3. Assessor shall possess knowledge of and be familiar with the application of automotive \
                      quality core tools including statistical process control, measurement systems analysis, part \
                      approval, failure mode and effects analysis, and advanced quality planning. \
\
                  Note: If more than one assessor is required to meet the above qualifications, the lead assessor shall \
                        be the person meeting the requirements in item #1. \
\
           Other Requirements \
           The organization shall keep records as evidence of compliance to the requirements identified in the \
           HTSA, as well as all appropriate action plans to address any unsatisfactory ratings. These records shall be \
           readily available for review by any customer requiring compliance to the requirements within this \
           document. \
\
       -8- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 Documentation recovery shall meet IATF 16949 or ISO 9001 requirements for process control and \
 inspection records. \
 It is assumed that the heat treater will meet all 'In-Process/Final Test Requirements/Frequencies' per \
 Section 4 of the Process Tables. If evaluation of the product characteristics detailed in Section 4 are not \
practical, the heat treater shall obtain an exception from the customer. Examples of such exceptions \
 include employing surrogate test pieces in lieu of sectioning large or expensive product, using alternative \
test methods for correlating specific mechanical characteristics, reduced frequency of inspection, etc. \
\
Exceptions in frequencies or test methods for the evaluation of product characteristics shall be \
 documented in the customer approved PPAP control plan. \
\
Exceptions are customer specific and do not carryover to other customers. \
\
                                                                                      -9- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                        AIAG \
\
    1 SCOPE \
\
    1.1 General \
    This document specifies process requirements for an organization or its suppliers performing applicable \
    heat treating, who need to: \
              \'b7   demonstrate ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable \
                  regulatory requirements, and \
              \'b7   enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including \
                  processes for continual improvement of the system. \
    The Heat Treat System Assessment is applicable to sites where customer-specified parts for production \
    and/or service are processed throughout the automotive supply chain. \
\
    1.2 Application \
    All requirements of the HTSA are generic and are intended to be applicable to all organizations \
    performing the heat treat operations addressed in this document, regardless of type, size, and product. \
    Nine Process Tables have been developed and the appropriate table(s) is to be referenced during the \
    assessment. The Process Tables are specific to heat treat processes as noted below: \
        Process Table A - Ferrous \
               \'b7 Carburizing \
               \'b7 Carbonitriding \
               \'b7 Carbon Restoration or Correction \
               \'b7 Neutral Hardening (Quench and Temper) \
              \'b7   Austempering \
               \'b7 Martempering \
              \'b7   Tempering \
               \'b7 Precipitation Hardening - Aging \
       Process Table B - Ferrous \
              \'b7   Nitriding (Gas) \
               \'b7 Ferritic-Nitrocarburizing (Gas or Salt) \
        Process Table C - Aluminum \
              \'b7   Aluminum Heat Treating \
        Process Table D -Ferrous \
               \'b7 Induction Heat Treating \
        Process Table E - Annealing, Normalizing, and Stress-Relieving \
               \'b7 Conformance to CQI-9 is required for organizations that perform annealing, normalizing, \
                  or stress-relieving to achieve desired final characteristics of the part. \
\
-10- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                             CQI-9 \
                                           Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
      Note: Material producers of primary or raw materials, or any intermediate thermal treating \
            process step(s) that do not affect the final characteristics of the part are exempt from \
            conforming to the requirements in CQI-9. \
\
   Process Table F - Low Pressure Processing (Carburizing / Carbonitriding / Neutral Hardening) \
   Process Table G - Sinter Hardening \
   Process Table H - Ion Nitriding \
   Process Table I - Hot Stamping \
\
These Process Tables contain requirements for: \
          1. Process and Test Equipment \
          2. Pyrometry \
          3. Process Monitor Frequencies \
          4. In-Process/Final Test Frequencies \
          5. Quenchant and Solution Test Frequencies \
\
The Process Tables specify the tolerances of process parameters and the frequencies for checking process \
control parameters and parts. The requirements and guidance in the HTSA form will notify the assessor \
when to refer to the Process Tables. \
\
1.3 Reference \
The following standards are referenced in this document. The applicability is limited to the subject matter \
referenced. \
\
     Standard                       Title                   Standard's Organization \
     Number \
\
 FMEA              AIAG & VDA FMEA Handbook                AIAG and VDA \
                                                           International Automotive \
 IATF 16949        Quality management systems               Task Force (IATF) \
\
 SAE J1739         Design FMEA and Process FMEA            SAE International \
                   Thermocouples - Part 1: EMF specifications International Electrotechnical \
 IEC 60584-1                                               Commission \
                   and tolerances \
                   General Requirements for the competence of International Organization for \
 ISO/IEC 17025     testing and calibration laboratories    Standardization \
                                                           International Organization for \
 ISO 9001          Quality management systems requirements Standardization \
\
                   Standard Specification and Temperature- American Standards of \
 ASTM E230         Electromotive (EMF) for Standardized     Testing and Methods \
                   Thermocouples \
\
                                                                                   -11- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                        AIAG \
\
     2 THE HEAT TREAT SYSTEM                    ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE \
\
        1.     Obtain current copy of CQI-9 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment, 4th edition \
               from AIAG. \
        2.     Download and save the Excel file that contains the CQI-9 Special Process: Heat Treat System \
               Assessment, 4th edition from www.aiag.org following the steps below: \
               \'b7   Enter your username & password \
               \'b7   Go to My Account \
                   - For an eDocument purchase: go to eDocuments \
                          0   Select Additional Documents \
                   - For a Hardcopy purchase: go to Downloads \
        Please note that the assessment can only be downloaded from the account it was purchased under. \
        3.     Identify all heat treat processes to which CQI-9 Special Process: Heat Treat System \
               Assessment, 4th edition applies (see CQI-9, 1.2 Application). Record these processes on the \
               HTSA Cover Sheet located on the Excel file. \
        4.     Complete the HTSA, determining the level of compliance. A minimum of one job audit \
               (Section 4) shall be performed during each assessment. \
        5.     Address each "Not Satisfactory" item and determine corrective action, including root cause \
               analysis and implementation of the corresponding corrective action(s). The corrective \
               action(s) shall be completed within 90 days. Records of the corrective action, including \
               verification, shall be maintained. \
        6.      "Needs Immediate Action" requires immediate containment of potential suspect product. \
               This type of noncompliance could lead to the improper thermal processing of product. \
               Address each "Needs Immediate Action" item and determine corrective action(s), including \
               root cause analysis and implementation of the corresponding corrective action(s). The \
               corrective action(s) shall be completed within 90 days or sooner, as determined by the \
               assessor and agreed upon with the quality leadership of the impacted organization. In some \
               instances a "Needs Immediate Action" finding could lead to actions up to and including a \
               processing stoppage until the noncompliance is resolved. Records of the corrective action, \
               including verification, shall be maintained. \
        7.     Assessments shall be conducted annually unless otherwise specified by the customer. \
\
-12- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                               CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Instructions for Completing the Cover Sheet \
    1.    Facility Name: Name of the facility being assessed. \
          One form shall be used for each facility. The facility may have several buildings or physical \
          locations in the same general area. If there is a separate management team (Quality Manager \
          and Metallurgist) or different management system, then these locations shall be considered as \
          separate facilities. \
   2.     Address: The street address of the facility being assessed; P.O. Box numbers may be given \
          as additional information. \
   3.     Phone Number: The phone number of the facility. \
          If there is no common phone number for the facility, the phone number of the Operations \
          Manager or Quality Manager shall be used. \
   4.     Fax Number: The fax number of the facility. \
    5.    Date of Assessment: Enter the date(s) of the assessment. An alphanumeric format shall be \
          used to avoid confusion with different numeric formats. \
                    Example: August 3 - 4, 2020 \
   6.     Date of Previous Assessment: List the date of the previous CQI-9 Special Process: Heat \
          Treat System Assessment of this facility. \
    7.    Internal (Captive) Heat Treater (Y/N): Enter "Y" if this facility heat treats components for \
          their own company. Enter "N" if the company does not heat treat any components for their \
          own company. \
    8.    Commercial Heat Treater (Y/N): Enter "Y" if this facility heat treats components for \
          companies other than their own company. Enter "N" if this facility does not heat treat any \
          components for other companies. \
   9.     Type(s) of Thermal Processing at this Facility: Place a checkmark to designate all thermal \
          processes performed at this facility. This information determines the appropriate Process \
          Table that shall be used during the assessment. Processes not listed on the cover sheet are not \
          part of the Heat Treat System Assessment. \
   10.    Current Quality Certification(s): The heat treater shall list their current quality \
          certifications, e.g. IATF 16949, ISO 9001. Certifications may be from 3rd party sources or \
          customer quality certifications. If customer quality certification is given, then the year of the \
          last assessment by the customer shall also be given. \
    11.   Date of Re-assessment (if necessary): If "Not Satisfactory" findings were observed from the \
          original assessment, then the heat treater shall address each item and determine correct action, \
          including root cause analysis and implementation of the corresponding corrective action(s). \
          The date of the re-assessment shall be given here, and the appropriate Question(s) from \
          Sections 1 -4, in the original assessment, shall be modified to reflect that the evidence, \
          relating to the implementation of the corrective action(s), has been observed. Also, the \
          "Number of Not Satisfactory Findings" shall be modified as appropriate. \
   12.    Personnel Contacted: List the name(s), title(s), phone number(s), and email address(es), if \
          available, of the principal participants from the heat treater's organization. \
   13.    Auditors/Assessors: List the name(s), Company(ies), phone number(s) and email \
          address(es), if available, of the auditor/assessor(s). \
\
                                                                                    -13- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                      AIAG \
\
       14.   Number of "Not Satisfactory" Findings: Enter the number of "Not Satisfactory" findings \
              observed during the assessment. \
       15.   Number of "Needs Immediate Action" Findings: Enter the number of "Needs Immediate \
              Action" findings observed during the assessment. \
       16.    Number of "Fail" Findings in the Job Audit(s): Enter the number of "Fail" findings \
              observed from the job audit. \
\
-14- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                CQI-9 \
\
                                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System            Assessment \
AIAG                                                                                              Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Cover Sheet Form \
\
                                 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
\
Facility Name \
\
Address \
\
Phone Number                                                     Fax Number: \
\
Date of Assessment                                               Date of Previous Assessment \
\
Internal (Ceptive) Heat Treater (Y/N):                           Commercial Heat Treater (Y/N): \
\
                                          Type(s) of Thermal Processing at this Facility: \
Process Table A                                                  Process Table D \
\
Carbunzing                                                       Induction Heat Treating \
\
Carbontr\uc0\u7883 ding                                                    Process Table E \
\
Carbon Restoration                                               Annealing \
\
Neutral Hardening (Quench and Temper)                            Normalizing \
\
Austempering / Martempering                                      Stress-Relieving \
\
Tempering                                                        Process Table F \
\
Precipitation Hardening / Aging                                  Low Pressure Processing \
                                                                 (Carburizing / Carbonitriding / Neutral Hardening) \
Process Table B                                                  Process Table G \
\
Nitriding (Gas)                                                  Sinter Hardening \
\
Ferritic-Nitmcarbunzing (Gas or Salt)                            Process Table H \
\
\uc0\u302 Process Table C                                                 lon Nitriding \
\
Aluminum Heat Treatment                                          Process Table 1 \
\
                                                                 Hot Stamping \
\
Current Quality Certification(s): \
\
Date cf Re-assessment (if necessary): \
\
Personnel Contacted: \
\
Name :                       Title:                              Phone:                    Email: \
\
 Auditors/Assessors: \
\
 Name :                      Company:                             Phone:                   Email: \
\
Number of "Not Satisfactory" Findings: \
\
Number of "Needs Immediate Action" Findings: \
\
Number of "Fail" Findings in the Job Audit(s): \
\
                                                                                                                         -15- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                        AIAG \
\
    Instructions for Completing Sections 1 - 3 \
    Sections 1 - 3 of the Heat Treat Assessment contain questions and the requirements and guidance for \
    each question. The Sections are: \
               \'b7 Section 1 - Management Responsibility & Quality Planning \
              \'b7   Section 2 - Floor and Material Handling Responsibility \
               \'b7 Section 3 - Equipment \
    The assessor shall assess the heat treater's compliance to Sections 1 - 3 by comparing the evidence \
    presented by the heat treater to the requirements listed in the "Requirements" column. \
\
           Note 1: In the "Requirements" column, the word "shall" indicates a requirement and the term \
                    "such as" indicates that any suggestions given are for guidance only. \
\
           Note 2: The "Requirements" column will indicate to the assessor when the Process Tables are \
                    pertinent to the questions. When the Process Tables are pertinent to the question, the \
                    assessor shall assess the heat treater's compliance to the specified section(s) in the \
                    Process Tables. \
\
           Note 3: If the question is not applicable to the heat treater, then the assessor shall place a \
                    checkmark in the "NA" column. If the observed evidence is in compliance to the \
                    question, the assessor shall note the evidence in the "Objective Evidence" column and \
                    place a check mark in the "Satisfactory" (S) column. If the observed evidence is not in \
                    compliance to the question, then the assessor shall note the noncompliance in the \
                    "Objective Evidence" column and place a check mark in the "Not Satisfactory" (NS) \
                    column. \
\
           Note 4: Where nonconforming product is identified in the assessment of a given question the \
                    assessor shall place a check mark in the "Needs Immediate Action" (NIA) column. \
                    NIA requires immediate containment of suspect product. \
\
                                           : \
\
-16- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                                               Special Process: Heat Treat System            Assessment \
AIAG                                                                                                Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Section       1 - Management Responsibility & Quality Planning \
\
                                  Section 1 - Management Responsibility and Quality Planning \
                                       Please describe Objective Evidence for each Requirement \
\
 1.1                                   Is there a dedicated and qualified heat treat person on-site? \
\
To ensure readily available expertise the following requirements shall be met. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
There shall be a dedicated and qualified full-time heat treat person on site. \
The position shall be reflected in the organization chart \
A job description shall exist identifying the qualifications for the positions including appropriate \
metallurgical and heat treat knowledge for the individuals. \
Evidence shall be available regarding the qualifications with a minimum of 5 years experience in \
heat treat operations or as a combination of a minimum of 5 years of formal metallurgical \
education and heat treat experience. \
Comments: \
\
 1.2                                    Does the heat treater perform advanced quality planning? \
\
The organization shall incorporate a documented advance quality planning process. A structured system for such process with the APQP elements is \
recommended, samples are available in the AIAG APQP manual or other equivalent national automotive industry standards. Similar parts can be grouped into part \
families for this effort as defined by the organization. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
There shall be documented advance quality planning procedure available. \
Feasibility studies shall be performed and internally approved for each part or group of similar \
parts \
There shall be a documented system for process changes with approval by the customer. \
Comments: \
\
 1.3                                Are heat treat FMEAs up to date and reflecting current processing? \
Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) for-processes (PFMEA) is mandatory for the prevention of product/process failure modes and final product concerns. \
Examples of appropriate methods and standards include SAE J1739, AIAG & VDA FMEA Handbook. \
                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
There shall be a documented Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) procedure with the \
present FMEAs updated and reflecting the current part quality status. \
FMEAs shall address all process steps from part receipt to part shipment and all the key heat treat \
process parameters as defined by the organization. \
All special characteristics, as defined by the organization and its customers, shall be identified, \
defined, and addressed in the FMEA. \
A cross-functional team shal be used in the development of the FMEA and shall be consistent with \
all associated documentation such as Control Plans, work instructions and shop travelers. \
Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                         -17- \
<<<\page \
\
         CQI-9 \
         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
         Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                              AIAG \
\
        1.4                               Are heat treat process control plans up to date and reflecting current processing? \
       Reference automotive industry Control Plan guidelines. The Control Plan may be specific for each part or part family or it can be process specific and written for \
       each process. In any case it describes required controls and actions for each process step as well as periodic requirements to assure process is in control. \
                                                                                                                            Assessment \
                                                                                                Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immediate \
                                            Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory    Action \
\
       The organization shall incorporate the use of a documented Control Plan reflecting the current \
       process. \
       Control Plans shall address all process steps from part receipt to part shipment and identify all \
       equipment used and all key heat treat process parameters as defined by the organization. \
       A cross-functional team shall be used in the development of the Control Plan and shall be \
       consistent with all associated documentation such as FMEAs, work instructions and shop \
       travelers. \
       All special characteristics as defined by the organization or its customers shall be identified, \
       defined, and addressed in the applicable control plan. \
       Sample sizes and frequencies for evaluation of process and product characteristics shall be \
       addressed and shall be consistent with the minimum requirements listed in the applicable Process \
       Table. \
       Comments: \
\
                                             Are all heat treat related and referenced specifications current and available? \
        1.5 \
                                         For example: Material standards, SAE, AIAG, ASTM, General Motors, Ford, and FCA. \
       A document control system is pertinent for the handling and internal distribution of received customer specifications and to keep up to date with national or global \
       standards related or close to heat treat processes. \
                                                                                                                            Assessment \
                                                                                                Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immediate \
                                            Requirements                                         Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory    Action \
\
       The organization shall have a procedure and process to ensure the timely review, distribution and \
       implementation of all customer and industry engineering standards/specifications and changes \
       based on customer-required schedule. \
       The organization shall have all related heat treat and customer referenced standards and \
       specifications available for use, like but not limited to SAE, AIAG, ASTM, ISO, EN, JIS, General \
       Motors, Ford, and FCA. \
       The procedure shall include a 2-week distribution limit for cascading newly received and reviewed \
       documents. \
       Comments: \
\
        .1.6                           Is there a documented system to create process specifications for all active processes? \
       A documented system for creating process specifications is necessary for operating the heat treat process within the desired, requested process parameters to \
       reach the final product specifications. Examples of process parameters include process temperatures, cycle times, load rates, atmosphere or gas flow settings, \
       belt speeds, quench agitation speeds, etc. \
                                                                                                                            Assessment \
                                                                                                Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immediate \
                                            Requirements                                         Evidence      |Satisfactory Satisfactory    Action \
\
       Authorization shall be defined to a responsible person (see 1.1) for establishing process \
       specification for the heat treatment of the products with the available equipment. \
       The heat treater shall have written process specifications for all active processes and identify all \
       steps of the process including relevant process parameters. \
       Parameters shall have operating tolerances as defined by the organization in order to maintain \
       process control. \
       Process specifications shall be available in the form of work instructions, job card, computer- \
       based recipes, or other similar documents. \
       All process specification changes shall be reviewed to the extent necessary to ensure continued \
       conformity with customer requirements for process changes. \
       All process specification changes shall be documented to include the date the process. \
       specification change was implemented and the person(s) approving the change. \
       Comments: \
\
-18- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                      CQI-9 \
                                                                  Special Process: Heat Treat System              Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                                                    Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
  1.7   Has the heat treat process been validated Initially and after process equipment has been relocated, or had a major rebuild or modification? \
 To demonstrate each heat treat process is capable of yielding acceptable product, the organization shall perform process validation as part of the initial validation \
 of each process, after relocation of any process equipment or heat treat location change, and after a major rebuild of any equipment Each process line may \
 include a combination of equipment that is integrated in the performance of a heat treat process, e.g. hardening, quenching and tempering. \
 (Heat treat process validation consists of robust heat treat equipment, rigorous process controlling and monitoring requirements and calibrations, appropriate test \
 equipment calibrations, and strategic product sampling techniques.) \
                                                                                                         Assessment \
                                                                                 Objective N/A               Not    Needs Immediate \
                                  Requirements                                   Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 The organization shall define what constitutes a major rebuild or modification that may impact \
product characteristics. \
 Process validation shall be performed on full production load, or production run, with production \
 intended fixturing and load configuration. \
 An action plan shall exist if process control parameters or any of the product characteristics fall \
 outside of the control tolerance limits or the heat treater does not conform to the respective \
 Process Table .: \
 The heat treater shall demonstrate that all parts in the heat treat process (heat treat batch or \
 production run) will meet customer specifications. \
\
 Samples for these tests shall be selected that best represent the entire production load population. \
\
 \'b7 An acceptable guideline for test sample locations is to use those loading locations prescribed for \
 temperature uniformity surveys. \
 \'b7 An acceptable guideline for induction hardening is to show a representative number of parts \
 produced at the extremes of process parameter's tolerances meet customer specifications. \
\
 Standard process capability indices may also be used to show compliance. \
 Comments: \
\
  1.8                            Does the heat treater collect and analyze data over time, and react to this data? \
\
 The analysis of product characteristics (e.g. tensile strength) and processes parameters (e.g. temperature) over time can yield vital information for defect \
 prevention efforts. Examples include but are not limited to product property trend charts, scrap trends, and variation in process parameter recordings. \
                                                                                                         Assessment \
                                                                                 Objective N/A               Not    Needs Immediate \
                                  Requirements                                   Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 The organization shall have a system to collect, analyze, and react to product or process data over \
 time. \
 Methods of analysis shall include ongoing trend or historical data analysis of product \
 characteristics or process parameters. \
 The organization shall determine which parameters are included in such analysis. \
 Comments: \
\
  1.9                                 Is the heat treat monitoring system reviewed by Qualified Personnel? \
 This review is intended to be a second level review in addition to those performed by the heat treat operators. This review would be performed by qualified \
 personnel as defined per question 1.17. The heat treat monitoring system includes but is not limited to temperature strip charts, atmosphere strip charts, \
 computer data logs, furnace and operator logs, etc. \
                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                 Objective N/A               Not    Needs Immediate \
                                  Requirements                                   Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 Qualified Personnel shall review the furnace monitoring systems at intervals not to exceed 24 \
 hours. \
 The process of reviewing the furnace data shall be documented. This requirement also applies to \
 computerized data. \
 This second level review shall include detection and reaction to out of control conditions or alarms. \
 This reaction shall be documented. \
 Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                               -19- \
<<<\page \
\
        CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
        Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                         AIAG \
\
       1.10                      Are internal assessments being completed on an annual basis, at a minimum, using AIAG HTSA? \
\
       The internal assessment includes a completed job audit and process table for each applicable process. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not     Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       The organization shall conduct internal assessments on an annual basis, at a minimum, using the \
      current revision of the AIAG HTSA. \
       Comments: \
\
       1.11                         Does the heat treater have a documented procedure for the rework/reprocessing of parts? \
\
      Rework/Reprocessing of heat treated components can have a significant impact on the performance of the component. Reworking/Reprocessing in some cases \
      is an acceptable practice. A rework/reprocessing procedure is key to identifying the rework/reprocessing practice. To be approved for rework/reprocessing, \
      either on a case by case basis or pre-approved in the PPAP, the heat treater shall meet the following requirements. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not     Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       Any change or addition to the rework/reprocessing procedure shall require notification and \
       approval in accordance with the AIAG PPAP process. Any rework/reprocessing not previously \
       approved and identified in the rework/reprocessing procedure is not allowed. \
       The OEM shall be notified by the Tier 1 supplier prior to rework/reprocessing product utilizing an \
       unapproved process. If not Tier 1, the customer shall be notified. \
       The rework/reprocessing procedure shall be referenced in the heat treater's PPAP approved \
       PFMEA and process control plan. \
       The rework/reprocessing procedure shall include the following: \
       \'b7 A description of product characteristics for which rework/reprocessing is allowed and those \
       characteristics for which rework/reprocessing is not permissible. \
       \'b7 A requirement that all rework/reprocessing activity have a new process control sheet issued by \
       qualified personnel; this new process control sheet shall include the heat treat parameter \
       modifications. \
       \'b7 A requirement that there is a record or log of all rework/reprocessing work. \
       \'b7 A description of the sampling plan. \
       \'b7 A requirement that the Quality Manager or a designee shall authorize the release of \
       rework/reprocessed product. \
\
       Comments: \
\
       1.12                       Does the Quality Department review, address, and document customer and Internal concerns? \
\
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective                     Not     Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence N/A   Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       The quality management system shall include a process for documenting, reviewing, and \
       addressing customer concerns and any other concerns internal to the organization. \
       A disciplined problem-solving approach shall be used. \
       Comments: \
\
       1.13                                     Does the organization have a Continual Improvement Plan (CIP)? \
\
       Continual improvement is an ongoing effort in the organization to improve processes, services, or products. These efforts may seek incremental improvement \
       over time or breakthrough improvement all at once. A CIP identifies specific continual improvement items, responsibilities and estimated completion dates. \
      Downtime reports, scrap reports, preventive maintenance reports, energy consumption, use of medias, etc., may be used to develop a CIP. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       The organization shall have continual improvement plan(s). \
       The CIP shall have specific action items, identify responsibilities and target completion dates for \
       each action item \
       The organization shall show evidence of program execution. \
       Comments: \
\
-20- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                  CQI-9 \
\
                                                               Special Process: Heat Treat System             Assessment \
AIAG                                                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 1.14                    Does the organization have a documented procedure for the control of nonconforming material? \
\
This practice is the responsibility of the manufacturers' quality management organization and their included personnel. The procedure should best describe the \
complete process with the handling of nonconforming or suspect products, beginning with detection and the authorization/obligation to quarantine those products \
up to the final decision and disposition in quarantine status .. \
                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                              Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                  Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
The documented procedure shall specify the responsibilities for handling segregation and \
disposition of suspect or non-conforming products. \
The organization shall keep records showing evidence of process being followed. \
Comments: \
\
 1.15           Are there procedures or work instructions available to the heat treat personnel that define the heat treating process? \
\
                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                              Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                  Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
There shall be procedures or work instructions available to all employees involved in heat treating \
and inspection of heat treated product. \
These procedures or work instructions shall include methods of addressing potential emergencies \
(such as power failure), equipment start-up, equipment shut-down, product segregation (See 2.8), \
product inspection, and general operating procedures. \
Comments: \
\
 1.16                                  Is management providing employee training for heat treating? \
\
                                                                                                      Assessment \
                                                                              Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immedlate \
                                 Requirements                                 Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 The organization shall provide employee training (including follow up and ongoing training) for al \
heat treating and inspection operations, including backup and temporary employees. \
 Management shall define the qualification requirements for each function. \
 Documented evidence of training and training effectiveness shall be maintained. \
 Operators shall be trained in material handling, containment action, and product segregation in the \
 event of an equipment emergency including power failure. \
 Comments: \
\
 1.17            Are all key management and supervisory functions (in regards to Heat Treatment) performed by qualified personnel? \
\
 Key management and supervisory functions, in regards to heat treatment, are critical to ensure both process stability and product quality. This can be \
 accomplished in several different ways. Some examples to consider are a responsibility matrix, the organizational chart, job descriptions, or incorporation into \
 other similar system documentation. \
                                                                                                      Assessment \
                                                                              Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                 Requirements                                 Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 The organization shall define and document, key management and supervisory functions in \
 regards to heat treatment. \
 This documentation shall clearly identify both primary and secondary (backup) personnel \
 This information shall be readily available to appropriate personnel. \
 Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                           -21- \
<<<\page \
\
         CQI-9 \
         Special Process: Heat Treat System                    Assessment \
        Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                                 AIAG \
\
       1.18           Is there a preventive maintenance program? Is maintenance data being utilized to form a predictive maintenance program? \
\
       Preventive maintenance is essential to ensure equipment, machines and tools are kept in appropriate condition for the manufacturing of products at desired \
       quality and capacity levels. The organization shall comply with the following requirements. \
                                                                                                                              Assessment \
                                                                                                  Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immedlate \
                                             Requirements                                         Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory     Action \
\
       The organization shall have a documented preventive maintenance program for all heat treat \
       process equipment. \
       The program shall be a closed-loop process that tracks maintenance efforts from request to \
       completion to assessment of effectiveness. \
       Equipment operators shall have the opportunity to report problems, and the problems shall be \
       handled in a closed-loop manner. \
       The company data (e.g. downtime, quality rejects, first-time-through capability, recurring \
       maintenance work orders, and operator-reported problems) shall be used to improve the \
       preventive maintenance program. \
       Maintenance data shall be collected and analyzed as part of the defined predictive maintenance \
       program. \
       Comments: \
\
        1.19             Has the Heat Treater developed a critical spare part list and are the parts avallable to minimize production disruptions? \
\
       The critical spare parts list and available inventory is typicaly comprised of long lead time components such as (but not limited to) burners, fans, rolls, belts and \
       other aloy parts. Availability of spare parts may be maintained on-site or off-site (for example, consignment) as identified by the heat treater. \
                                                                                                                              Assessment \
                                                                                                  Objective                       Not      Needs Immediate \
                                             Requirements                                          Evidence N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory       Action \
\
       The heat treater shall develop and maintain a critical spare parts list \
       The heat treater shall ensure the availability of critical spare parts to minimize production \
       disruptions. \
       Comments: \
\
                 Is material from different heat lots which may preclude achieving the specified metallurgical properties prevented from being processed \
        1.20 \
                                                                              together? \
       Batch to batch variation may have an adverse effect on metallurgical properties. This variation may require that batches be processed separately. \
                                                                                                                              Assessment \
                                                                                                  Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immediate \
                                             Requirements                                          Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory     Action \
\
       Where appropriate, the heat treater shall have a material product flow management system to \
       prevent the processing of mixed batches. \
       Comments: \
\
-22- \
                                                      00 \
<<<\page \
\
                      -                                                                                             CQI-9 \
                                                                Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                                                  Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Section        2 - Floor and Material Handling Responsibility \
\
                                         Section 2 - Floor and Material Handling Responsibility \
                                        Please describe Objective Evidence for each Requirement \
\
                                                                                                                customer order? \
 2.1 Does the heat treat responsible organization ensure that customer data entered in the process tracking system matches the \
                                                                                                        applies to captive heat \
It is critical that all customer requirements and lot identification be adequately transferred to internal heat treat documents. This also \
treaters and their internal material flow. . \
                                                                                                       Assessment \
                                                                               Objective N/A Satisfactory Not     Needs Action Immediate \
                                 Requirements                                  Evidence                 Satisfactory \
\
The heat treater shall establish a documented product tracking system (e.g. shop travelers, work \
orders, etc.) which supports the heat treatment with relevant product and process information. \
The heat treat organization shall establish a system to detect and resolve discrepancies on \
received products and corresponding customer information. \
Comments: \
\
 2.2                              Is product clearly identified and staged throughout the heat treat process? \
\
Product identification, process status and location of products with their process status are important to prevent incorrect processing or mixing of lots. \
                                                                                                       Assessment \
                                                                               Objective N/A .             Not    Needs Immediate \
                                 Requirements                                  Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 There shall be a procedure for part and container identification to avoid incorrect processing or \
mixing of lots. \
 Non-heat treated, in-process, and finished product shall be properly segregated in clearly \
 identified locations. \
 Comments: \
\
  2.3                                Is lot traceability and integrity maintained throughout all processes? \
\
                                                                                                        Assessment \
                                                                                Objective N/A Satisfactory Not    Needs Action Immediate \
                                 Requirements                                   Evidence                Satisfactory \
\
 Lot traceability shall be maintained throughout the entire process. \
 Comments: \
\
  2.4                 Are procedures adequate to prevent movement of non-conforming product into the production system? \
\
 The control of suspect or non-conforming product is necessary to prevent inadvertent shipment or contamination of other lots. \
                                                                                                        Assessment \
                                                                                Objective N/A Satisfactory Not     Needs Action Immediate \
                                  Requirements                                  Evidence                Satisfactory \
\
 Procedures shall exist addressing proper disposition, product identification, and tracking of \
 material flow in and out of the hold area. \
                                                                                                                     .. \
 A non-conforming hold area shall be clearly designated to maintain segregation of such material. \
 Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                             -23- \
<<<\page \
\
        CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System                   Assessment \
        Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                             AIAG \
\
                        system to identify trap points in the entire heat treat process to reduce risk of mixed parts (Inappropriate, non-heat treated, or \
       2.5     Is there a \
                                                                 improperly heat treated parts)? \
      Heat-treating furnaces and other processing equipment (including but not limited to baskets, conveyors, chutes, etc.) contain areas that have a risk of trapping or \
      holding parts. Such trapping of parts can lead to damage, improperly processed parts or lot mixing/contamination. \
                                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not     Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       The heat treater shall have procedures to identify and monitor trap points for each \
      process/equipment. \
      Monitoring of potential trap points shall occur for every lot changeover. \
      Comments: \
\
        2.6                  Are containers free of inappropriate material or free of heat treated parts mixed with non-heat treated parts? \
\
       The purpose of the requirement is to reduce the risk of contaminating the finished lot with nonconforming parts or inappropriate material. Containers used for the \
      transport of parts to be heat treated are often used for the same material after completion of the heat treat process. It is critical that the finished lot is not \
       contaminated with non-heat treated parts or other inappropriate material remaining in the container. \
                                                                                                                           Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not      Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory    Action \
\
       There shall be a procedure that addresses the inspection of containers used for transporting non- \
      heat treated and heat treated parts. \
       The procedure shall include the inspection of containers after emptying and immediately before re- \
       using to ensure that all parts and inappropriate material have been removed. \
       The source of inappropriate material shall be identified and addressed. \
       Comments: \
\
        2.7                                          Is furnace loading specified, documented and controlled? \
\
                                                                                                                           Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                   Not     Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       Furnace loading parameters shall be specified, documented, and controlled (including but not                                         . \
       limited to the following examples: feed rate, belt speed, number of parts per fixture, load weight). \
       Comments: \
\
              Is there a procedure for material handling, containment action, and product segregation in the event of an equipment emergency including \
        2.8 \
                                                                          power failure? \
       Unplanned or emergency downtime greatly increases the risk of improper processing. \
                                                                                                                           Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not      Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                         Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       There shall be a procedure for material handling, containment action, and product segregation in \
       the event of an equipment emergency including power failure. \
      |The procedure shall address containment actions related to all elements of the heat-treating \
       process, e.g. loading, austenitizing, quenching, tempering. \
       The procedure shall define when this emergency plan is to be implemented. \
       Comments: \
\
-24- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                CQI-9 \
\
                                                              Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                                             Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 2.9                            Is the handling, storage and packaging adequate to preserve product quality? \
\
 Some equipment includes conveyors and other moving components that may not be able to handle all part configurations. Other practices such as stacking of \
overloaded containers can also increase the risk of part damage. \
                                                                                                   Assessment \
                                                                            Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                Evidence      Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
Handling, storage, and packaging shall be adequate to preserve product quality. \
 The heat treater's furnace loading system, in-process handling, and shipping process shall be \
 assessed for risk of part damage or other quality concerns. \
 Comments: \
\
 2.10          Are plant cleanliness, housekeeping, environmental, and working conditions conducive to control and improve quality? \
\
                                                                                                   Assessment \
                                                                            Objective                  Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                Evidence N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 Plant cleanliness, housekeeping, environmental, and working conditions shal be conducive to \
\uc0\u302 controlling and improving quality. \
 A housekeeping policy shall be clearly defined and executed. \
 .The facility shall be reviewed for conditions that are detrimental to quality processing such as \
 loose parts on floor, oil around quench tanks, inadequate plant lighting, smoke, etc. \
 Comments: \
\
 2.11.                     Are parts free from contaminants that would be detrimental to the heat treatment process? \
\
 Oils, coatings and other contaminants or residues may adversely affect the heat treatment process or subsequent processes. Pre/Post wash or other methods of \
 contamination removal may be required by customer or mandatory for process function. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                            Objectivo N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 If applicable, cleaning parameters shall be monitored and documented. \
 The frequency for checking the cleaning parameters shall conform to applicable Process Table, \
 Section 5.0 \
 Comments: \
   .. \
  2.12                               Is the quenching system monitored, documented, and controlled? \
\
 Refer to Process Tables, Sections 3.0 and 5.0, for details and frequency of checks. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A             Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
 The quenching system shall be monitored; documented, and controlled. (Computer-monitoring \
 equipment, with alarms and alarm logs, satisfy the verification requirement.) \
 Quench delay time with alarm is required. Not applicable for belt, shaker, or pusher furnaces \
 where parts free-fall into the quench, \
 Temper delay time shall be specified by the heat treater for parts that are quenched and tempered \
 (e.g. carburizing, carbonitriding, neutral hardening, induction hardening). \
 Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                        -25- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System                Assessment \
       Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                          AIAG \
\
      2.13                          Are soluble oil or other rust preventive solutions monitored and controlled if applicable? \
\
     \'a1Parts are often dipped in or sprayed with rust preventive solutions immediately after the heat treating process. Refer to Process Tables, Section 5.0, for \
     frequency of checks. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                                         Requirements                                      Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
      Soluble oil solutions or other rust preventive solutions shall be monitored and controlled, if \
      applicable. \
      The heat treater shall have and maintain documented tolerances for the solutions. \
\
      Comments: \
\
      2.14                          Are process control parameters monitored per frequencies specified in Process Tables? \
\
      Refer to Process Tables, Section 3.0. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                                         Requirements                                      Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
      Process control parameters shall be monitored per frequencies specified in Process Tables. \
      A designated floor person shall verify the process parameters, e.g. by initialing a strip chart or \
      data log. (Computer monitoring equipment with alarms and alarm logs satisfy the verification \
      requirement.) \
      Comments: \
\
       2.15                             Are In-Process/Final Test Frequencies performed as specified in Process Tables? \
\
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective                     Not    Needs Immediate \
                                         Requirements                                      Evidence N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory    Action \
\
      In-Process/Final Test Frequencies shall be performed as specified in Process Tables. \
      Any exceptions to test frequencies specified in the process tables shall be approved by the \
      Customer in writing. \
      Comments: \
\
      2.16                                            Is product test equipment calibrated and verified? \
\
      Refer to Process Tables, Section 1.0, for frequency of checks. \
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                                        \'b7 Requirements                                     Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
      Test equipment shall be calibrated and verified per applicable customer-specific standards or per \
      an applicable consensus standard such as those published by ASTM, DIN, EN, ISO, JIS, NIST, \
      SAE etc. \
      Calibration and verification results shall be internally reviewed, approved, and documented. \
\
      Comments: \
\
-26- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                                              Special Process: Heat Treat System             Assessment \
AIAG                                                                                               Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Section 3 - Equipment \
\
                                                     Section 3 - Equipment \
                                       Please describe Objective Evidence for each Requirement \
\
 3.1                        Do furnaces, generators, and quench systems have proper process control equipment? \
Examples include temperature, carbon potential, dew point, gas flows, quench monitoring system including agitation, temperature control, etc., as listed in the \
applicable Process Tables, Section 1.0 \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
The heat-treat equipment including furnaces, generators, and quench systems shall have proper \
process controls. \
Comments: \
\
3.2                             Are process equipment calibrations, verifications and certifications current? \
Refer to the applicable Process Tables, Sections 1.0 and 2.0, for equipment calibration, verification and certification frequencies. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
The calibrations, verifications and certifications of the process equipment shall be performed at \
regular intervals as specified in the applicable Process Table(s). \
Non-contact thermometry devices shall be calibrated as specified in the applicable Process \
Tables. \
A documented offset procedure as defined in Section P3.2.3 shall exist \
The documented offset procedure shall indicate who has the authority to approve the use of \
offsets and how this approval is documented. \
Offset or bias applied for the instrumentation calibration adjustment shal comply with P3.2.3. \
Calibration labels shall meet the requirements established in Section P3.2.5.1. \
Calibration reports shall meet the requirements established in Section P3.2.5.2. \
Comments; \
\
 3.3                          Are thermocouples and protection tubes checked or replaced per Process Tables? \
\
The accuracy of thermocouples is essential for good temperature control, the collection of accurate process data and the protection of furnace equipment. \
                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                             Objective N/A              Not    Needs Immediate \
                                Requirements                                 Evidence     Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
Thermocouples shall be calibrated before first use, within the temperature range in which they will \
be used and meet the accuracy requirements of the Section P3.1 Tables. \
Control, monitoring and recording thermocouples shall be SAT checked as per the applicable \
Process Table(s) and Section P3.3. \
The insertion depth of Type K and Type E test thermocouples shall be documented when the \
thermocouple is reused as per Section P3.1.3.3. \
System Accuracy Test records shall meet the requirements established in Section P3.3.5. \
Protection tubes shall be checked or replaced in compliance to a documented preventive \
maintenance schedule. \
Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                         -27- \
<<<\page \
\
         CQI-9 \
         Special Process: Heat Treat System                       Assessment \
         Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                                   AIAG \
\
        3.4                                Are temperature uniformity surveys performed per requirements In Process Tables? \
                                                                                                                                                                                         F \
                                                                                                                                  Assessment \
                                                                                                     Objective                        Not      Needs Immediate \
                                              Requirements                                           Evidence   N/A   Satisfactory Satisfactory     Action \
\
       Temperature uniformity surveys shall be conducted per the requirements in the applicable \
       Process Tables, Section 2.0. \
       Actions that alter the temperature uniformity characteristics of a furnace shall be documented per \
                                                                                                                                                                                          T \
       section P3.4.1.2. \
                                                                                                                                                                                          \uc0\u1491  \
       If used, alternate temperature uniformity test methods shall meet the requirements of Section \
       P3.4.8. \
       The upper temperature tolerance shall not be exceeded at any time. Exceptions may exist in \
       systems where multiple process temperatures exist in a single process cycle per section P \
       3.4.5.1. \
       The organization's internal process specification shall define suitable soak time at temperature                                                                                   F \
       requirements for pass/fail determination as per Section P3.4.5.1.                                                                                                                  7 \
       Temperature uniformity survey reporting shall meet the requirements established in Section                                                                                         E \
       P3.4.7. \
       Comments: \
\
        3.5                 Is the variation of the furnace control thermocouple from set point within the requirements in the Process Table? \
\
                                                                                                                                  Assessment \
                                                                                                     Objective                        Not      Needs Immediate \
                                              Requirements                                            Evidence   N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory      Action \
\
       The variation between the furnace control thermocouple value and the set.point temperature shall \
       be within the limits defined in the applicable Process Tables, Section 2.0. \
       Comments: \
\
        3.6                         Are the process and equipment alarm checks being tested quarterly or after any repair or rebuild? \
\
                                                                                                                                  Assessment \
                                                                                                     Objective   N/A                  Not      Needs Immediate \
                                              Requirements                                            Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory     Action \
\
       The heat treater shall have a list of alarms that, if not properly working, may have a high probability \
       of producing non-conforming product \
       The listed alarms shall be checked quarterly at a minimum or after any repair or rebuild. \
       Other alarms, including but not limited to safety-related, shall be checked per the heat treater's \
       requirement \
        These alarm checks shall be documented. \
\
       Comments: \
\
-28- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                    CQI-9 \
                                                      Special Process: Heat Treat System        Assessment \
   IAG                                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
              Are generators and furnace atmospheres continuously monitored, automatically controlled, and documented? \
\
  aces that preclude in-situ control and monitoring, use the method described in Section 3.4.5 "Property Surveys". \
                                                                                        Assessment \
                                                                   Objective N/A           Not    Needs Immediate \
                          Requirements                             Evidence    Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
  or and furnace atmosphere carbon potential/dew point shall be continuously monitored, \
  icaly controlled, and documented. \
  orded furnace carbon potential shall be controlled within +0.05 of the set point. \
  orded dew point shall be controlled within acceptable limits as specified in the control plan \
  ial procedures. \
  ators are not used, the flow rates of the supplied atmosphere gases shall be monitored and \
  \'9bd. \
  omatic and continuous atmosphere control system shall consist of sensors such as oxygen \
  pr on-line infrared (IR) gas analysis. \
  it treater shall also have a back-up method of checking carbon potential/dew point. \
  \'9b method verification frequencies shall be conducted according to the applicable process \
\
  Ints: \
\
    When the back-up verification check of the atmosphere does not correlate within pre-established limits with the primary control method \
     (carbon potential/dew point reading), is correlation of the carbon-bearing atmosphere to the primary control method re-established? \
\
                                                                                        Assessment \
                                                                   Objective N/A           Not    Needs Immediate \
                          Requirements                             Evidence    Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
  :k-up atmosphere monitoring system reading and the primary control method atmosphere \
  int/carbon potential reading shall be maintained within the correlation limits specified in the \
  plan or internal procedures. \
  ck-up carbon potential/dew point reading shall be established using one or more of the \
  g methods: \
  it measurement of surface carbon of sample \
   Stock \
  Arialyzer \
  Point \
  R\'e9sistance \
  Indant Oxygen Probe \
  a discrepancy has been detected, the correlation shall be re-established between the back- \
  primary method and documented. \
  ige tolerances for correlation between the two readings shall be in the control plan or. \
  | procedures. \
  ents: \
\
         Are all ammonla lines equipped with a fail-safe method to prevent the inadvertent introduction of ammonia into the furnace? \
\
                                                                                        Assessment \
                                                                   Objective N/A           Not    Needs Immediate \
                          Requirements                             Evidence    Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
  the following fail-safe methods shall be used to prevent inadvertent introduction of ammonia \
  \'b7 furnace. \
  ick disconnect or physical separation of the lines \
e-valve ammonia "fail-safe" vent system is permitted. See the \
ion "Three Valve Fail-Safe Vent" and diagram in the glossary. \
Inual and 2 electrical magnetic valves in series \
\
iconnecting of ammonia atmosphere from non-ammonia bearing atmosphere shall be \
  ented. \
  ents: \
\
                                                                                                           -29- \
<<<\page \
\
        CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System                 Assessment \
        Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                        AIAG \
\
               Is there a minimum of. 3 hour purge of the furnace atmosphere when switching from an ammonia bearing atmosphere to a non-ammonia \
       3.10 \
                                                                        bearing? \
      Ammonia pick-up can be undesirable in parts and heat treat processes not specifying/requiring ammonia as an addition. \
                                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                Not     Needs Immediato \
                                         Requirements                                      Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       The heat treater shall perform a minimum 3 hours purge prior to processing product not requiring \
       ammonia as an addition. \
       Any reduction of the 3 hour purge shall require conclusive test data of the atmosphere to show no \
       significant amount of residual ammonia is present in the furnace atmosphere. \
       Log book, data logger, or other records shall document the actual purge time and that sufficient \
      time has been allocated to remove ammonia from the furnace prior to processing parts in heat \
      treat processes not specifying ammonia. \
       Comments: \
\
       3.11                         Do all atmosphere furnaces and generators have flow scopes or flow meters for all gases? \
\
                                                                                                                     Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective                    Not     Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence N/A | Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       Al! atmosphere furnaces and generators (output trim/adjustment gas) shall have flow scopes or \
       flow meters for all gases, \
       Flow scopes and meters shall be periodically serviced per the heat treater's preventive \
       maintenance program. \
       Cleaning and proper re-assembly procedures shall be documented. \
       Comments: \
\
       3.12          Is there a fall-safe system at the front of continuous belt furnaces for austenitizing to prevent non-uniform loading of parts? \
\
                                                                                                                    Assessment \
                                                                                           Objective N/A                Not     Needs Immediate \
                                          Requirements                                     Evidence       Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
       Sight glass inspection ports shall exist for the visual evaluation of load distribution. \
       Sight glass inspection ports shall be cleaned per the preventive maintenance schedule. \
       There shall be a fail-safe system implemented on continuous belt furnaces to prevent non uniform \
      loading of the parts. \
       In the absence of a fail-safe system, a non-contact thermometry device shall be employed with the \
       following requirements met \
\
       \'b7 A non-contact thermometry device shall be aimed at the center of product mass from the \
       discharge end of the furnace (i.e. bulk head portal) in order to acquire part temperature \
      immediately prior to quenching. \
       \'b7 A non-contact thermometry device temperature alarm shall be -28\'b0\uc0\u8451  \
      (-50\'b0F) maximum of the final zone set point temperature. \
       \'b7 Non-contact thermometry device temperature data shall be continuously recorded. \
       Comments: \
\
-30- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                              CQI-9 \
\
                                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System          Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
3.13                                   Is salt chemistry in the austenitizing salt bath monitored? \
\
This is applicable to salt bath heat treating processes listed in Process Tables A and B. \
                                                                                                 Assessment \
                                                                           Objective                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                               Requirements                                         N/A | Satisfactory          Action \
                                                                           Evidence               Satisfactory \
\
The heat treater shall check the salt chemistry in the austenitizing salt bath, or part \
decarburization. \
The heat treater shall conform to the frequency of checks defined in the applicable Process Table \
Sections 3. \
Comments: \
\
3.14                                            Is the quenching medium analyzed? \
\
                                                                                                 Assessment \
                                                                           Objective                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                               Requirements                                Evidence N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
The heat treater shall periodically have the quenching medium analyzed for specific quenching \
characteristics, e.g. cooling curve, water content, salt concentration, as specified in the applicable \
Process Tables, Section 5.0. \
The quench medium characteristic tolerances shall be specified by the quench medium supplier \
or the heat treater. \
Test results shall be reviewed for conformance and documented by the heat treater. \
\
Comments: \
\
                                              FOR INDUCTION HEAT TREATING \
\
 3.15                                      Is the positioning of each part being controlled? \
\
                                                                                                  Assessment \
                                                                           Objective                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                               Requirements                                Evidence N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
\
There shall be a method to ensure proper part position such as the use of proximity switches, \
optical sensors or mechanical Poka-Yoke system. \
Comments: \
\
 3.16                                Does the heat treater control the energy or power for each part? \
\
                                                                                                  Assessment \
                                                                           Objective                 Not    Needs Immediate \
                               Requirements                                         N/A Satisfactory Satisfactory Action \
....                                                                       Evidence \
 The heat treater shall control the energy or power for each part \
Signature monitor or energy monitor shall be used to monitor energy or power to the part and \
record all out of control events. \
Any alternative method shall be approved by the Customer. \
 Comments: \
\
                                                                                                                      -31- \
<<<\page \
\
        CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System                   Assessment \
        Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                             AIAG \
\
       3.17                                             Does the supplier have a coil management system? \
\
      Coil refers to the heating coil and the quench plenum. \
                                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not     Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       The heat treater shall have a coil management system. \
\
       Spare coils for each part shall be available on-site. \
       Coils shall conform to the customer approved design. \
       Comments: \
\
       3.18                                                       Is quench system automatic? \
\
                                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not     Needs Immediate \
                                           Requirements                                        Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       The quench system shall be automatically initiated and controlled. \
       Comments: \
\
                                      there a procedure that addresses maintenance of the inductor and quench spray nozzle(s) \
       3.19                         Is \
                                                               (e.g. quench ring, quench shower)? \
\
                                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not     Needs Immediate \
                                            Requirements                                       Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       There shall be a procedure that includes regular inspection and cleaning of the inductor and \
       quench spray nozzle(s). \
       Comments: \
\
       3.20                                     Is there a procedure to purge the air pockets from the quench lines? \
\
       After downtime of the induction heating system, air pockets may form in the quench lines. These air pockets will cause interrupted quenching at start-up. Factors \
       such as quench line diameter, length, geometry, etc., should be considered when establishing the time limit of the downtime. \
                                                                                                                          Assessment \
                                                                                               Objective N/A                  Not     Needs Immediate \
                                            Requirements                                       Evidence        Satisfactory Satisfactory   Action \
\
       There shall be a procedure to purge the quench lines after downtime. \
       The Heat treater shall establish the time limit (of the downtime) when this procedure is to be \
       followed. \
       Comments: \
\
-32- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                             CQI-9 \
                                          Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                              Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
P3.1 Thermocouples \
\
P3 1.1 Application of Thermocouples: Thermocouples shall be selected as appropriate for their \
intended use. Where a process is to be controlled, consideration shall be given to variables that can have \
an impact upon thermocouple performance such as, but not limited to, atmosphere, temperature, electrical \
interference, etc. \
\
Guidelines established for recommended temperature ranges or upper temperature limits for \
thermocouples in publications such as ASTM E230, IEC 60584-1, or other national equivalent standards \
or by the thermocouple manufacturer should be adhered to. \
\
      P3.1.1.1 All thermocouples shall comply with Tables P3.1.1, P3.1.2, P3.1.3, P3.1.4 and P3.1.5 \
      requirements. \
\
      P3.1.1.2 Extension wire shall not be spliced. Only compensated jacks, plugs, connectors and \
      terminal strips may be used. (e.g. Type K plugs with Type K wire). \
\
P3.1.2 Calibration of Thermocouples: Thermocouples shall be calibrated traceable to the National \
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other national institute of calibration, such as PTB \
(Germany). \
\
      P3.1.2.1 Thermocouples shall be calibrated prior to first use and in the temperature range in \
      which they will be employed. The calibration temperature test points shall be no further than \
       150\uc0\u8451  or 250\'baF apart. \
\
       The time interval for the replacement of thermocouples shall commence with the date the \
       thermocouple is placed in service. \
\
      Refer to Tables P3.1.1, P3.1.2, P3.1.3, and P3.1.4 for appropriate thermocouple calibration and \
      replacement requirements. \
\
      P3.1.2.2 Calibration certificates shall include the following detail: the actual test temperature \
      reading, the nominal test temperature, the corresponding correction factor (or error/deviation \
      value) for each calibration temperature test point, the provider of the calibration data, their \
      accreditation symbol (or equivalent) if not performed in-house and the calibration method used. \
\
       P3.1.2.3 The interpolation of correction factor values between calibration test points is allowed. \
      Extrapolation is not allowed; no determinations shall be made concerning values either above the \
      highest calibration temperature or below the lowest calibration temperature. \
\
      P3.1.2.4 External sources providing calibrations shall be accredited to ISO/IEC17025 or other \
      national equivalent. Internal sources providing calibrations shall do so in accordance with the \
      intent of ISO/IEC17025 or other national equivalent. Records shall be kept of training and \
      qualifications for internal personnel performing calibrations. \
\
      P3.1.2.5 Thermocouples may be individually calibrated or made from calibrated rolls provided \
      that both ends of the roll are sampled and the accuracy requirements established in Tables P3.1.1, \
      P3.1.2, P3.1.3, and P3.1.4 are satisfied. \
\
                                                                                  -33- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
    P3.1.3 Reuse of Thermocouples: The date that any thermocouple is placed in service shall be \
    documented. The tracking of uses for non-expendable control, monitoring and recording thermocouples is \
    not required. Non-expendable control, monitoring and recording thermocouples shall be replaced or \
    recalibrated in accordance with the requirements indicated in Table P3.1.1. All other thermocouples shall \
    be replaced or recalibrated in accordance with requirements indicated in the applicable Table P3.1.2, \
    P3.1.3, P3:1.4 or P3.1.5. \
\
            P3.1.3.1 A "use" for thermocouples is defined as one cycle of heating and cooling of the \
            thermocouple (see glossary). See Table P3.1.5 for maximum number of uses of a thermocouple. \
\
            P3.1.3.2 All thermocouples shall be stored in such manner as to protect them from damage. \
            Damaged thermocouples shall not be reused. Examples of a damaged thermocouple would \
            include but are not limited to; insulation not intact, hot junction broken, evidence of corrosion, \
            crimping, termination fitting or plug has become loose or sheath material has been scratched \
            exposing mineral insulating material. \
\
            P3.1.3.3 For reuse of Type K and Type E test thermocouples, the depth of insertion shall be \
            equal to, or greater than, the depth of insertion of any previous use. \
\
            P3.1.3.4 Thermocouples shall be dedicated to a specific, unalterable purpose (TUS, SAT, Load \
            Sensing, Control, Monitoring or Recording). Thermocouples that have achieved their maximum \
           permitted number of uses for this assigned application shall not be repurposed for other CQI-9 \
            compliance requirements. \
\
-34- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                        CQI-9 \
                                        Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                           Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 Table P3.1.1 Calibration and Replacement Requirements for Thermocouples Used for Process \
                         Control, Monitoring and Recording \
                   OPERATING        CALIBRATION /    CALIBRATED    CALIBRATION \
 THERMOCOUPLE \
                 TEMPERATURE       REPLACEMENT        AGAINST       ACCURACY \
    TYPE (1)                         INTERVAL                       REQUIRED \
\
                                                                 + 1.1\'b0\uc0\u8451  (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                                                      Primary or # \
Base Metal Types                Calibrate before first use.        0.4% of reading \
                 \uc0\u8805  760\'baC (1400\'baF)                     Secondary     whichever is \
   (K,N,J,E)                    Replace Annually (2,3,5) Standard \
                                                                      greater \
\
                                                                 + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                                Calibrate before first use. Primary or + \
Base Metal Types    < 760\'b0C                                        0.4% of reading \
                                  Replace Every Two   Secondary     whichever is \
   (K,N,J,E,T)      (1400\'baF)        Years (2,3,5)      Standard \
                                                                      greater \
\
                                                                 + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                                Calibrate before first use. Primary or + 0.4% \
Noble Metal Types                                                       of reading \
                   All Temps      Replace Every Two   Secondary     whichever is \
 (B,R,S & RTDs) \
                                    Years (2,4,5)      Standard       greater \
\
1.    Non-Expendable \
2.    Thermocouples shall be replaced whenever needed, e.g. failed SAT or damaged thermocouple; \
      however, thermocouples shall be replaced minimally as stated above. \
3.    Base metal thermocouples shall not be recalibrated. \
                                                                                      FE \
4.    Noble metal thermocouples Type B, R, S and RTDs (Resistance Temperature Detectors see \
      glossary) may be recalibrated in lieu of replacement. \
5     Applies to resident thermocouples used for Comparative Method SAT. Does not apply to Load \
      Sensing Thermocouples. See Tables P3.1.4 and P3.1.5 \
\
                                                                             -35- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                       AIAG \
\
     Table P3.1.2 Calibration and Replacement Requirements for Thermocouples Used for Primary \
                                     and Secondary Standards \
\
                                                  CALIBRATION / CALIBRATED     CALIBRATION \
     THERMOCOUPLE   THERMOCOUPLE        USE       REPLACEMENT                   ACCURACY \
                         TYPE                       INTERVAL       AGAINST      REQUIRED \
\
                                                                             + 0.6\'b0C (+ 1.0\'baF) \
                                     Secondary   Before first use. Reference        or \
        Primary     Types R and S    Standard    Recalibrate \
                                                           each              + 0.1% of reading \
      Standard (1)   Noble Metal                                 Standard (4) \
                                     Calibration three (3) years.              whichever is \
                                                                                 greater \
\
                                                                              + 0.6\'b0\uc0\u8451  (+ 1.0\'baF) \
                                        Test     Before first use.                  or \
       Secondary    Types R and S                Recalibrate each Primary \
                                   Thermocouple                              + 0.1% of reading \
     Standard (2,3) Noble Metal                                   Standard \
                                     Calibration two (2) years.                whichever is \
                                                                                  greater \
\
                                                                              + 0.6\'b0C (+ 1.0\'baF) \
                                       Test      Before first use.                  or \
       Secondary .      Type B                                     Primary \
                                   Thermocouple Recalibrate each                + 0.25% of \
     Standard (2,3)   Noble Metal                                 Standard \
                                     Calibration two (2) years.              reading whichever \
                                                                                 is greater \
\
                                                 Before first use. \
                                                                             + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) \
                                                  Replace each                      or \
                                        Test \
       Secondary                                   one (1) year    Primary \
                      Base Metal   Thermocouple                   Standard   + 0.4% of reading \
     Standard (2,3)                              period minimum. \
                                     Calibration                               whichever is \
                                                  Recalibration \
                                                                                 greater \
                                                  prohibited (5) \
\
    1.     A primary standard thermocouple together with a primary standard instrument shall be used to \
           calibrate secondary standard thermocouples. \
    2.     A secondary standard thermocouple together with, at a minimum, a secondary standard \
           instrument shall be used to calibrate test thermocouples. \
    3.     Use is limited to the calibration of temperature uniformity, system accuracy, controlling, \
          recording, monitoring, and load thermocouples. \
    4.     A Type R or S noble metal thermocouple calibrated against a NIST (or equivalent) reference \
           standard. No error permitted. \
    5.    Base metal thermocouples shall not be recalibrated. \
\
-36- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                      CQI-9 \
                                       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
  AIAG                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
     Table P3.1.3 Calibration and Replacement Requirements for Thermocouples Used for \
              Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) and System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
                                 CALIBRATION /    CALIBRATED    CALIBRATION \
   THERMOCOUPLE     USE         REPLACEMENT                      ACCURACY \
       TYPE                                        AGAINST \
                                  INTERVAL                       REQUIRED \
\
                 Temperature Before first use. Replace Primary or + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
  Types B, R and S Uniformity or Recalibrate every 2 Secondary + 0.4% of reading \
    Noble Metal \
                   Surveys          years.         Standard whichever is greater \
\
                             Before first use. Replace Primary or + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
  Types B, R and S SAT - Probe or Recalibrate every 2 Secondary + 0.4% of reading \
    Noble Metal    Method                          Standard \
                                    years.                   whichever is greater \
\
                    SAT -    Before first use. Replace Primary or + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'b0F) or \
  Types B, R and S Comparative or Recalibrate every 2 Secondary + 0.4% of reading \
    Noble Metal    Method           years.         Standard whichever is greater \
\
                  Temperature                      Primary or #1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                             Before first use. Replace \
     Base Metal   Uniformity                       Secondary + 0:4% of reading \
                               per Table P3.1.5 (1) Standard whichever is greater \
                   Surveys. \
                                                   Primary or + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                 SAT - Probe Before first use. Replace         + 0.4% of reading \
     Base Metal                                    Secondary \
                   Method      per Table P3.1.5 (1) \
                                                   Standard   whichever is greater \
\
                    SAT -                          Primary or + 1.1\'b0C (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
                             Before first use. Replace         + 0.4% of reading \
     Base Metal Comparative                        Secondary \
                               per Table P3.1.1 (1) Standard whichever is greater \
                   Method \
\
1.     Base metal thermocouples shall not be recalibrated. \
\
                                                                            -37- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                     AIAG \
\
       Table P3.1.4 Calibration and Replacement Requirements for Thermocouple Used for Load \
                                            Sensing \
                              CALIBRATION /                               CALIBRATION \
     THERMOCOUPLE                                     CALIBRATED \
                             REPLACEMENT                                   ACCURACY \
           TYPE                                         AGAINST \
                                INTERVAL                                    REQUIRED \
                                                        Primary or      # 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
      Types B, R and S   Before first use. Replace or \
                                                                          0.4% of reading \
        Noble Metal    Recalibrate every six (6) months. Secondary       + \
                                                         Standard       whichever greater \
                         Before first use. Replace per Primary or       + 1.1\'baC (+ 2.0\'baF) or \
        Base Metal        Table P3.1.5 Recalibration    Secondary        + 0.4% of reading \
                               prohibited. (1)           Standard        whichever greater \
\
    1.     Base metal thermocouples shall not be recalibrated. \
\
          Table P3.1.5 - Allowable Number of Uses for Thermocouples in Specific Applications \
\
                                                                                MAXIMUM \
       THERMOCOUPLE                                            OPERATING       PERMITTED \
                                         USE \
             TYPE                                             TEMPERATURE         USES \
                                                                                   (6) \
                             Temperature Uniformity Surveys /                       15 \
     Expendable Base Metal               SAT                 \uc0\u8804  980\'baC (1800\'baF) \
\
                             Temperature Uniformity Surveys /                       1 \
     Expendable Base Metal \
                                         SAT                 > 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF) \
     Expendable Base Metal            Control (1)                   All             1 \
\
     Expendable Base Metal   Monitor/Record/Load Sensing (4) > 650\'b0C (1200\'b0F)       1 \
\
     Expendable Base Metal   Monitor/Record/Load Sensing (4) \uc0\u8804  650\'b0C (1200\'b0F)      30 \
\
                             Temperature Uniformity Surveys, \
      Non-expendable Base \
                                 SAT and Load Sensing        \uc0\u8804  980\'b0C (1800\'b0F)    180 (3,7) \
             Metal \
                                   Thermocouples (5) \
                             Temperature Uniformity Surveys, \
      Non-expendable Base \
                                 SAT and Load Sensing        > 980\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF)   90 (2,3,7) \
             Metal \
                                   Thermocouples (5) \
\
    1.     Includes Load Sensing Thermocouples used as a Control Thermocouple. \
    2.     When a non-expendable base metal thermocouple is used above 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF), the maximum \
          total number of uses is 90 uses which shall include any previous or subsequent temperature \
           readings taken with the subject thermocouple. These uses shall be documented. \
    3.     In the absence of documentation of the number of uses for non-expendable base metal \
           thermocouples used for TUS and SAT, then the thermocouples shall be replaced after 6 months \
           for temperatures below or equal to 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'b0F) and after 3 months for temperatures above \
           980\'b0C (1800\'b0F). \
    4.     Expendable base metal thermocouples for load sensing are only allowed more than one use if \
           thermocouple shows no visual damage. Documentation is required to show compliance. \
\
-38- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                         CQI-9 \
                                         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
  AIAG                                                           Fourth Edition; June 2020 \
\
       Non-expendable base metal thermocouples for load sensing are only allowed more than one use if \
       thermocouple shows no visual damage. Documentation is required to show compliance. \
       Under no circumstance shall any expendable base metal thermocouple be used beyond one year \
       from date of first use. Under no circumstance shall any non-expendable base metal thermocouple \
       be used beyond two years from date of first use. \
1      Resident thermocouples if used for Probe Method A and Probe Method B shall be replaced after 6 \
       months for temperatures below or equal to 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'b0F) and after 3 months for temperatures \
       above 980\'b0C (1800\'b0F). \
\
                                                    4 \
\
                                                                              -39- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
    P3.2 Instrumentation \
\
    P3.2.1 General Instrumentation Requirements: Instrumentation shall be selected as appropriate for \
    their intended use and shall meet or exceed the accuracy requirements indicated in Table P3.2.1. \
\
           Note: Analog instrumentation shall be replaced with digital instrumentation within three years of \
                \'b7 issued date of CQI-9 Fourth Edition. \
\
           P3.2.1.1 All instrumentation calibrations shall be traceable to the National Institute of Standards \
           and Technology (NIST) or other national or international standard. \
\
           P3.2.1.2 External sources providing calibrations shall be accredited to ISO/IEC17025 or other \
           national equivalent. \
\
           Original equipment manufacturers without accreditation may be used to perform calibrations on \
           their equipment. Calibrations shall be performed in accordance with the intent of ISO/IEC17025 \
           or other national equivalent. \
\
           Internal sources providing calibrations shall do so in accordance with the intent of ISO/IEC17025 \
           or other national equivalent. Records shall be kept of training and qualifications for internal \
           personnel performing calibrations. \
\
           P3.2.1.3 Calibration frequencies and accuracies are specified in the applicable Process Tables \
           and in the Instrumentation Table P3.2.1. A grace period of 2 weeks is allowed for all calibrations. \
\
           P3.2.1.3.1 If calibrations are found to be outside the limits established in Instrumentation Table \
           P3.2.1, the cause of the deviation shall be determined and documented, and the equipment shall \
           not be used for additional processing until a successful calibration adjustment has been \
           performed. \
\
           P3.2.1.3.2 If an instrument calibration cannot be performed within the prescribed interval \
           requirements, the equipment shall not be used for production. An instrument calibration meeting \
           the requirements established in Table P3.2.1 shall be performed prior to equipment being used for \
           production. \
\
           P3.2.1.4 The temperature for each control zone shall be recorded by a recording instrument. \
           Where temperature within the work zone is controlled indirectly, e.g. retort type furnaces, the \
           temperature within the work zone shall also be recorded by a recording instrument where furnace \
           design permits. \
\
           P3.2.1.4.1 Recorder shall be operating during the entire time that product is in the furnace and \
           print intervals/sample rates shall not exceed five (5) minutes for analog recorders and two (2) \
           minutes for digital recorders. Process record shall be legible. \
\
    P3.2.2 Readability and Resolution: The following represent minimally acceptable requirements: \
\
           P3.2.2.1 Test instruments shall be digital and have a minimum readability of 1.0\uc0\u8451  or 1.0\'b0F. \
\
-40- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                          CQI-9 \
                                         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                              Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
      P3.2.2.2 At least one controlling, monitoring, or recording instrument for each furnace or oven \
      zone shall have a minimum readability of 1.0\'b0\uc0\u8451  or 1.0\'baF for digital instruments or 2.0\u8451  or 4.0\'baF \
      for analog instrumentation. \
\
      P3.2.2.3 Temperature resolution requirements for digital and/or analog furnace chart recorders \
      shall comply with the following: \
          \'b7 55\uc0\u8451  maximum per centimeter of chart paper \
          \'b7 5 \uc0\u8451  maximum per chart line increment \
          \'b7 250\'baF maximum per inch of chart paper \
          \'b7 10\'baF maximum per chart line increment \
\
3.2.3 Offsets: Although the use of offsets is generally discouraged, they are allowed to (specifically) \
orrect for calibration errors, SAT errors and to center a TUS result. \
\
offset or bias values applied are limited and shall not exceed 3\'baC or 5\'baF for the correction of instrument \
alibration error. An additional offset or bias of 3\'baC or 5\'baF is allowed for the correction of an SAT error \
nd another 3\'baC or 5\'baF of offset or bias for the purpose of centering a TUS result. \
\
When offsets are used a documented procedure shall exist which at a minimum describes each of the \
allowing :. \
          \'b7 When the use of offset is permitted \
          \'b7 How manual and electronic offsets are performed \
          \'b7 How the basis (calibration, SAT or TUS) for the offset is documented \
          \'b7 How offset is accounted for when performing calibrations \
          \'b7 How offset is considered when performing an SAT \
          \'b7 How to reintroduce any intentional offsets \
          \'b7 Who has the authority to approve the use of offsets \
          \'b7 How the approval is documented \
\
3.2.4 Calibration: Calibration of control, monitoring, and recording instruments shall be performed to \
ne manufacturer's instructions; however calibration may be performed as described in P3.2.4.1. \
\
      P3.2.4.1 It is acceptable to perform calibrations on either a single point (measure) or multi-point \
      (source) basis. The following requirements shall be met: \
\
      P3.2.4.1.1 For the calibration of control, monitoring and recording instruments on furnaces that \
      are in operation and running at typical operating temperatures, a single point calibration is \
      acceptable (parallel reading of the thermocouple input at the instrument or module). \
\
      P3.2.4.1.2 Calibration of control, monitoring and recording instruments may be performed on a \
      multi-point basis by sourcing a signal to the instrument representing the low, mid and high points \
      of the range of the instrument. \
\
      P3.2.4.1.3 For furnaces with a load in process the furnace temperature shall remain within \
      processing tolerance. \
\
                                                                                -41- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
           P3.2.4.1.4 Test equipment used for the calibration of control, monitoring and recording \
           instruments shall at a minimum meet the requirements for Field Test Equipment as specified in \
           Table P3.2.1. \
\
           P3.2.4.2 For each channel or group of channels in use that can be altered or adjusted, a \
           calibration shall be required. \
\
           P3.2.4.3 Calibration Frequency for control, monitoring, and recording instruments shall be \
           quarterly. \
\
           P3.2.4.3.1 The frequency may be every six months provided that the SAT is performed monthly \
           per Probe Method A (per P3.3.4.1) AND the multi-point calibration is employed for the \
          \'b7instrument. \
\
    P3.2.5 Calibration Records: Calibration status and results shall be reported as follows. \
\
           P3.2.5.1 A calibration label shall be affixed to the instrumentation device, or in the case of panel \
           mounted control, monitoring or recording instrumentation, on the device or as near as practical to \
           the device(s) to indicate its (their) most recent successful calibration. The label(s) at a minimum \
           shall include: \
               \'b7 Date the calibration was performed \
               \'b7   Due date of the next calibration \
               \'b7   Technician who performed the calibration (initials are acceptable) \
               \'b7   Serial number of instrument \
\
           P3.2.5.2 Instrumentation calibration results shall be documented. The instrument calibration \
           report or certificate shall include the following information: \
               \'b7   Furnace or unit identification number \
               \'b7 Make, model and serial number of instrument calibrated (PLC devices/modules not \
                  serialized require unique identification) \
               \'b7 Standard or test instrument used during calibration \
               \'b7 Method of calibration \
               \'b7   Ambient temperature and humidity \
               \'b7   Required accuracy \
               \'b7 Initial and final values at each calibration point (if no adjustment is made then the final \
                   value will equal the initial value) \
               \'b7   Initial and corrected offset/bias values (if no adjustment is made then the corrected \
                   offset/bias value will equal the initial value) \
               \'b7 Basis for offset/bias values indicated and clearly defined (Calibration, SAT, or TUS) \
               \'b7   Statement of acceptance \
               \'b7   Any limitations or restrictions of the calibration \
               \'b7   Date the calibration was performed \
               \'b7   Due date of next calibration \
               \'b7   Technician who performed the calibration \
\
-42- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                  CQI-9 \
                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                    Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
         \'b7   Name and signature of the technician who performed the calibration \
         \'b7   Accreditation symbol (or equivalent) if not performed in-house \
         \'b7   Calibration company if not performed in-house \
         \'b7   Sign-off by responsible person in the heat treat organization \
\
3.2.6 Electronic Records: When using a control, recording, monitoring or data acquisition system that \
\'b7eates electronic records the system shall create write-once, read-only electronic records that cannot be \
tered without detection. \
\
                                                                                                               - \
                                                                                        -43- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                              AIAG \
\
                    TABLE P3.2.1 INSTRUMENT CALIBRATION REQUIREMENTS \
\
                                     MAXIMUM \
                                                                   CALIBRATION \
                    INSTRUMENT CALIBRATION         CALIBRATED \
     INSTRUMENT                                                     ACCURACY               USE \
                        TYPE          PERIOD         AGAINST \
                                                                    REQUIRED \
                                   (MONTHS) (2) \
                                                      NIST or \
       Reference    Zener voltage                                 Per NIST or ISO \
                                        36           equivalent                      Limited to primary \
        Standard      reference                  National Standard EN Standard.     standard calibration. \
\
                                                                     + 0.05\'b0C (+    Limited to laboratory . \
                                                                      0.1\'baF) or    calibration of secondary \
                    Potentiometer,                   Reference      +                         and test \
        Primary                                                       0.015% of       standard \
                   digital volt meter   36 \
        Standard                                     Standard         reading,     instruments and primary \
                    or equivalent. \
                                                                    whichever is   and secondary standard \
                                                                      greater.            sensors. \
\
                                                                                    Limited to laboratory \
                                                                                    calibration of field test \
                                                                  + 0.2\'baC (+ 0.3\'baF) \
                                                                         or         instruments, system \
                    Potentiometer,                                                  accuracy test sensors, \
       Secondary                                                     + 0.05% of \
                   digital volt meter    12      Primary Standard                  temperature uniformity \
        Standard                                                      reading, \
                    or equivalent.                                  whichever is survey test sensors, load \
                                                                                   sensors, and controlling, \
                                                                      greater. \
                                                                                   monitoring, or recording \
                                                                                          sensors. \
                      SAT/TUS \
                       portable                                                     Limited to controlling, \
                                                                  + 0.6\'b0C (+ 1.0\'baF) \
                   potentiometer or \
                                                                         or        monitoring, or recording \
                        digital                      Primary or                     instrument calibration, \
       Field Test                                                    + 0.1% of \
                     instrument,         12         Secondary                      performance of system \
       Instrument \
                    electronic data                  Standard         reading        accuracy tests and \
                                                                    whichever is \
                   recorder or data                                                temperature \
                                                                      greater.                uniformity \
                      acquisition                                                        surveys. \
                       system. \
                                                     Field Test \
                                                    Instrument \
                                         3         (single-point or \
                       Digital                                                      Limited to measuring, \
        Control,                                     multi-point \
                      Instrument                                                  recording, and controlling \
      Monitoring or                                 calibration) \
                       Electro                                    + 2.0\'b0C (+ 4.0\'baF) the temperature of \
       Recording     mechanical \
       Instruments                                   Field Test                      thermal processing \
                     instrument. \
                                                    Instrument                          equipment. \
                                       6 (1) \
                                                    (multi-point \
                                                    calibration) \
\
                                                     Field Test                   Limited to measuring the \
        Control,     Mechanical \
                                                    Instrument                         temperature of \
      Monitoring or (analog) or          3 \
                                                   (single-point or + 2.0\'b0C (+ 4.0\'baF) refrigeration and quench \
       Recording       Thermal \
                                                     multi-point                   bath thermal processing \
       Instruments     element. \
                                                    calibration)                        equipment. \
\
     1. Per P3.2.4.3.1 the frequency may be every six months provided that the SAT is performed \
        monthly per Probe Method A (per P3.3.4.1) AND the multi-point calibration is employed for the \
        instrument. \
     2. Calibration time interval commences with date of last calibration. \
\
-44- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                           CQI-9 \
                                          Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
  AIAG                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
  P3.3 System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
\
  P3.3.1. SAT shall be performed for all control, monitoring and recording thermocouples. This does not \
  include the "over temperature" thermocouples which are used solely to protect the furnace from \
  overheating. \
\
        P3.3.1.1 The SAT shall be performed using either the Probe Method (Section P3.3.4.1 or Section \
        P3.3.4.2) or the Comparative Method (Section P3.3.4.3) \
\
  P3.3.2 The SAT using the Probe Method shall be performed using a test thermocouple conforming to the \
  requirements of Thermocouple Table P3.1.3 coupled with a field test instrument meeting the \
requirements of Instrumentation Table P3.2.1. \
\
  P3.3.3 A new SAT shall be performed after any maintenance that could affect the SAT accuracy, e.g. the \
replacement of the lead wire, control thermocouple, or the replacement of the control, monitoring, or \
recording instrument. \
\
P3.3.4 The SAT shall be performed while the furnace is operating at a typical operating temperature \
using one of the following methods: \
\
        P3.3.4.1 Probe Method A: \
\
        P3.3.4.1.1 Probe Method A is a check between the uncorrected reading of the control, \
        monitoring, or recording temperature system (control instrument, leadwire, and thermocouple) \
        and the corrected reading of a test temperature system (test instrument and test thermocouple). \
        See Illustration P3.3.1 and P3.3.2 \
\
        P3.3.4.1.2 The tip (measuring junction) of the test thermocouple shall be no further than 50mm \
        (2 inches) from the tip (measuring junction) of the control thermocouple. \
\
        P3.3.4.1.3 The temperature indication of the control, monitoring, or recording instrument \
        connected to its associated thermocouple shall be within +/- 5\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 10\'baF) of the corrected \
        temperature indication of the test thermocouple on a test instrument. After insertion of the test \
        thermocouple, allow sufficient time to achieve equilibrium between the test thermocouple and the \
        control, monitoring, or recording thermocouple. \
\
        P3.3.4.1.3.1 When using Probe Method A, any electronic offset value introduced into the control \
        instrument for the purpose of centering a TUS result shall be mathematically removed when \
        calculating the SAT difference. \
\
        P3.3.4.1.4 If the calculated SAT difference exceeds 5\'b0C (10\'baF) the appropriate corrective action \
       shall be taken before commencing with additional thermal processing. Control, monitoring, or \
        recording thermocouples failing to meet the requirements shall be replaced. A new SAT shall be \
        conducted on the replacement thermocouple. \
\
        P3.3.4.1.4.1 Actions taken to correct the failed SAT shall be documented. \
\
        P3.3.4.1.5 Resident SAT thermocouples shall be non-expendable and of a different type than the \
        sensor being tested. Only Types N, B, R and S are allowed as resident SAT thermocouples. See \
        Table 3.1.5, SAT Probe Method for the resident thermocouple replacement schedule. \
\
                                                                                -45- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
           P3.3.4.1.6 SAT frequency shall be quarterly. A grace period of 2 weeks is allowed for Probe \
           Method A SATs. \
\
           P3.3.4.1.7 If an SAT cannot be performed within the prescribed interval requirements, the \
           equipment shall not be used for production. An SAT meeting the requirements established in \
           Table P3.3.1 shall be performed prior to equipment being used for production. \
\
                            EXAMPLE OF PROBE METHOD "A" \
\
                                    Control          Temp. High Limit \
                                                       Thermocouple \
                     900\uc0\u8451            Thermocouple \
\
        Temp.         Control                                                  Temp. \
       Recorder     Instrument                                               High Limit \
\
                                                                            Qualified Work Zone \
     Lead Wire \
\
                        901\uc0\u8451                                                 Furnace Wall \
\
                                  Test        FURNACE SYSTEM \
                                  Thermocouple                                    Thermocouple Head \
                   Test Instrument \
\
                      Example of a Probe Method "A" System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
                             Performed on the Temperature Control System \
\
      CONTROL    CONTROL    ADJUSTED     TEST        TEST       TEST     CORRECTED    CALCULATED \
     INSTRUMENT INSTRUMENT CONTROL    INSTRUMENT THERMOCOUPLE INSTRUMENT    TEST          SAT \
    TEMPERATURE TUS OFFSET INSTRUMENT TEMPERATURE CORRECTION CORRECTION INSTRUMENT \
     INDICATION           TEMPERATURE INDICATION    FACTOR     FACTOR    TEMPERATURE READING DIFFERENCE \
        (A)         (B)     (C)=(A)-(B)   (D)         (E)        (F) \
                                                                         (G)=(D)+(E)+(F) (C) - (G) \
       900\'b0C       0\'b0C       900\'b0C      901\'b0C      + 0.3\'b0C     + 0.1\'b0C    901.4\'b0C       - 1.4\'b0C \
      (1652\'b0F)    (0\'b0F)     (1652\'b0F)   (1654\'b0F)    (+ 0.5\'b0F) (+ 0.2\'b0F)   (1654.7\'b0F)     (- 2.7\'b0F) \
\
                                         ILLUSTRATION P3.3.1 \
\
-46- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                         CQI-9 \
                                         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                     EXAMPLE OF PROBE METHOD "A" \
\
               900\uc0\u8451         Control        Temp. High Limit \
                            Thermocouple   Thermocouple \
\
    Temp.       Control \
   Recorder   Instrument                                        Temp. \
\
                                                              High Limit \
\
                                                             Qualified Work Zone \
Lead Wire \
\
                 900\uc0\u8451                                          Furnace Wall \
\
                          Resident FURNACE SYSTEM \
                                                                   Thermocouple Head \
                          Thermocouple \
              Test Instrument \
                        PERFORMED WITH A RESIDENT THERMOCOUPLE \
\
                Example of a Probe Method "A" System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
         Performed with a Resident Thermocouple on the Temperature Control System \
\
   CONTROL CONTROL   ADJUSTED    TEST    RESIDENT   TEST CORRECTED TEST CALCULATED \
  INSTRUMENT INSTRUMENT CONTROL INSTRUMENT THERMOCOUPLE INSTRUMENT INSTRUMENT SAT \
TEMPERATURE TUS OFFSET INSTRUMENT TEMPERATURE CORRECTION CORRECTION TEMPERATURE DIFFERENCE \
  INDICATION        TEMPERATURE INDICATION FACTOR FACTOR     READING \
     (A)      (B)    (C)=(A)-(B) (D)       (E)       (F)   (G)=(D)+(E)+(F) (C) - (G) \
\
   900\'b0C      0\uc0\u8451       900\'b0C     900\'b0C    + 0.3\'b0C   + 0.1\'b0C   900.4\'b0C    -0.4\'b0C \
  (1652\'b0F)   (0\'b0F)   (1652\'b0F) (1652\'b0F)   (+ 0.5\'b0F) (+ 0.2\'b0F) (1652.7\'b0F) (- 0.7\'baF) \
\
                                ILLUSTRATION P3.3.2 \
\
                                                                              -47- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                         AIAG \
\
            P3.3.4.2 Probe Method B: \
\
            P3.3.4.2.1 The Probe Method B is a comparison between the uncorrected reading of the control \
           temperature thermocouple indicated on a test instrument and the corrected reading of a test \
           temperature system (test instrument and test thermocouple). See Illustration P3.3.3 and P3.3.4. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.2 The tip (measuring junction) of the test thermocouple shall be no further than 50 mm \
            (2 inches) from the tip (measuring junction) of the control thermocouple. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.3 After insertion of the test thermocouple, sufficient time shall be allowed to achieve \
            equilibrium between the test thermocouple and the control thermocouple under test. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.4 The uncorrected reading of the control, monitoring, or recording thermocouple \
           connected to a test instrument shall be recorded at the highest point in its temperature cycle. \
            Immediately following, the test instrument shall be connected to the test thermocouple. The \
            corrected reading of the test temperature system shall be recorded at the highest point in its \
           temperature cycle. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.5 If the calculated SAT difference between the uncorrected reading of the control \
            temperature thermocouple indicated on the test instrument and the corrected reading of the test \
            temperature system (test instrument and test thermocouple) exceeds +5\uc0\u8451  (+10\'baF) the control \
            temperature thermocouple shall be replaced, and any other appropriate corrective actions shall be \
            taken before commencing with additional thermal processing. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.5.1 Actions taken to correct the failed SAT shall be documented. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.6 Resident SAT thermocouples shall be non-expendable and of a different type than the \
           sensor being tested. Only Types N, B, R and S are allowed as resident SAT thermocouples. See \
            Table 3.1.5, SAT Probe Method for the resident thermocouple replacement schedule. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.7 SAT frequency shall be quarterly. A grace period of 2 weeks is allowed for Probe \
            Method B SATs. \
\
            P3.3.4.2.8 If an SAT cannot be performed within the prescribed interval requirements, the \
           equipment shall not be used for production. An SAT meeting the requirements established in \
            Table P3.3.1 shall be performed prior to equipment being used for production. \
\
-48- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                              CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
  AIAG                                                               Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                       EXAMPLE OF PROBE METHOD "B" \
\
                   900\uc0\u8451          Control        Temp. High Limit \
                                                Thermocouple \
                                Thermocouple \
\
        Temp        Control \
       Recorder    Instrument                                         Temp. \
                                                                    High Limit \
\
              Lead Wire                                    \'80       Qualified Work Zone. \
\
      900\uc0\u8451             90\'b0C                                         Oven Wall \
                                                                 \'80 \
\
                               Test      FURNACE SYSTEM \
                                                                         Thermocouple Head \
                               Thermocouple \
  Test Instrument(1,2) Test Instrument(2) \
\
                 Example of a Probe Method "B" System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
                        Performed on the Temperature Control System \
\
      CONTROL           TEST          TEST         TEST       CORRECTED    CALCULATED \
   THERMOCOUPLE    THERMOCOUPLE   THERMOCOUPLE INSTRUMENT "Y"    TEST          SAT \
    TEMPERATURE     TEMPERATURE    CORRECTION   CORRECTION    INSTRUMENT   DIFFERENCE \
  INDICATION ON TEST INDICATION ON TEST FACTOR    FACTOR     TEMPERATURE \
                                                               READING \
  INSTRUMENT "X" (1) |INSTRUMENT "Y" (2) \
                                                    (D)                      (A) - (E) \
        (A)             (B)            (C) \
                                                             (E)=(B)+(C)+(D) \
\
       900\'b0C           901\'b0C         + 0.3\'b0C      + 0.1\'b0C      901.4\'b0C       - 1.4\'b0C \
      (1652\'b0F)        (1654\'b0F)      (+ 0.5\'b0F)    (+ 0.2\'b0F)    (1654.7\'b0F)     (-2.7\'b0F) \
\
                                   ILLUSTRATION P3.3.3 \
1. Uncorrected temperature reading. \
2. Although multiple test instruments are illustrated, the use of multiple test instruments is not required to \
    perform this testing process; A single test instrument is typically utilized (test instrument "X" and "Y" \
     would be the same instrument). \
\
                                                                                    -49- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                            AIAG \
\
                            EXAMPLE OF PROBE METHOD "B" \
                                PERFORMED WITH A RESIDENT THERMOCOUPLE \
\
                        900\uc0\u8451            Control          Temp. High Limit \
                                                          Thermocouple \
                                       Thermocouple \
\
            Temp.        Control \
          Recorder      Instrument                                               Temp. \
                                                                                High Limit \
\
                  Lead Wire                                                    Qualified Work Zone \
                                                                     \'80 \
\
         900\uc0\u8451               900\u8451                                                 Oven Wall \
\
                                     Resident    FURNACE SYSTEM \
                                     Thermocouple                                    Thermocouple Head \
     Test Instrument(1,2) Test Instrument(2) \
            X \
\
                      Example of a Probe Method "B" System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
              Performed with a Resident Thermocouple on the Temperature Control System \
\
         CONTROL           RESIDENT         RESIDENT         TEST      CORRECTED TEST CALCULATED \
      THERMOCOUPLE       THERMOCOUPLE     THERMOCOUPLE INSTRUMENT "Y"    INSTRUMENT         SAT \
       TEMPERATURE       TEMPERATURE       CORRECTION     CORRECTION    TEMPERATURE     DIFFERENCE \
    INDICATION ON TEST INDICATION ON TEST    FACTOR         FACTOR         READING \
     INSTRUMENT "X" (1) |INSTRUMENT "Y" (2) \
            (A)               (B)              (C)            (D)       (E)=(B)+(C)+(D)   (A) - (E) \
\
          900\'b0C              901\'b0C           + 0.3\'b0C        + 0.1\'b0C        901.4\'b0C        - 1.4\'b0C \
         (1652\'b0F)           (1654\'b0F)        (+ 0.5\'b0F)      (+ 0.2\'b0F)     (1654.7\'b0F)      (-2.7\'baF) \
\
                                          ILLUSTRATION P3.3.4 \
\
    1. Uncorrected temperature reading. \
    2. Although multiple test instruments are illustrated, the use of multiple test instruments is not required to \
       perform this testing process; A single test instrument is typically utilized (test instrument "X" and "Y" \
       would be the same instrument). \
\
-50- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                          CQI-9 \
                                         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                              Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
      P3.3.4.3 Comparative Method: \
\
      P3.3.4.3.1 The Comparative Method is a comparison between the uncorrected reading of the \
      control, monitoring, or recording temperature system (control instrument, leadwire and \
      thermocouple) and the uncorrected reading of any other permanently installed monitoring system \
      (instrument, leadwire and thermocouple) in the same work zone, such as an over temperature \
      control system. See Illustration P3.3.5 and P3.3.6 \
\
      P3.3.4.3.2 The temperature difference (delta) between the control, monitoring, or recording \
      system (control instrument, leadwire and thermocouple) reading and the reading of any other \
      permanently installed monitoring system, at the time of the most recent conforming instrument \
      calibration test, shall be established (e.g. the control temperature system indicates 600\'b0\uc0\u8451  and the \
      over temperature control system indicates 605\'b0C; the delta between these two devices is +5\uc0\u8451 ). \
\
      P3.3.4.3.3 This established delta shall not differ by more than +/-1\uc0\u8451  (or +/-2\'baF) when checked \
      at a typical operating temperature. It is strongly recommended that the comparative check be \
      performed at or near the original comparison test temperature. See examples in Illustrations \
      P3.3.5 and P3.3.6 for calculation of delta. \
\
      P3.3.4.3.4 If both devices have their respective thermocouples in the same protection tube they \
      shall be of a different type (e.g. Type K with Type N, Type R or Type S with Type B, K\'b7or N). \
      This is to prevent false readings due to similar degradation rate. \
\
      P3.3.4.3.5 Corrective actions shall be taken to correct a failed SAT before commencing with \
      additional thermal processing. A new delta shall be established after any maintenance that could \
      affect the SAT accuracy, "e.g.", the replacement of the lead wire, thermocouple, control \
      instrument, or calibration adjustment for either the control temperature device or temperature \
      monitoring system. Actions taken shall be documented. \
\
      P3.3.4.3.6 Resident SAT thermocouples shall be non-expendable and of a different type than the \
      sensor being tested. Only Types N, B, R and S are allowed as resident SAT thermocouples. See \
      Table 3.1.3, SAT Comparative Method for the resident thermocouple replacement schedule. \
\
      P3.3.4.3.7 SAT frequency shall be monthly. A grace period of 3 days is allowed for Comparative \
      Method SATs. \
\
      P3.3.4.3.8 If an SAT cannot be performed within the prescribed interval requirements, the \
      equipment shall not be used for production. An SAT meeting the requirements established in \
      Table P3.3.1 shall be performed prior to equipment being used for production. \
\
                                                                               -51- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
                          EXAMPLE OF COMPARATIVE METHOD \
\
                     900\uc0\u8451            Control           Temp. High Limit \
                                     Thermocouple      Thermocouple \
                                                                               901\uc0\u8451  \
\
        Temp.         Control \
      Recorder       Instrument \
                                                                                Temp. \
                                                                              High Limit \
\
                                                                             Qualified Work Zone \
\
                                                                             Furnace Wall \
\
                                               FURNACE SYSTEM. \
                                                                                    Thermocouple Head \
\
                     Example of a Comparative Method System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
                             Performed on the Temperature Control System \
\
        CONTROL       PERMANENTLY                       CONTROL       PERMANENTLY     CALCULATED \
      INSTRUMENT       INSTALLED                       INSTRUMENT      INSTALLED       DEVIATION \
      TEMPERATURE      MONITORING                     TEMPERATURE      MONITORING     FROM INITIAL \
       AT TIME OF      INSTRUMENT     INITIAL DELTA     AT TIME OF     INSTRUMENT       DELTA(2) \
      INSTRUMENT      TEMPERATURE                       MONTHLY       TEMPERATURE \
     CALIBRATION(1)    AT TIME OF                       CHECK(1)       AT TIME OF \
                      CALIBRATION(1)                                    MONTHLY \
                                                                        CHECK(1) \
           (A)             (B)         (C) = (B) - (A)     (D)             (E)         (E) - (D) - (C) \
\
         900\'b0C           901\'b0C           + 1.0\'b0C         901\'b0C           902\'b0C            0\'b0\uc0\u8451  \
        (1652\'b0F)        (1654\'b0F)        (+ 2,0\'b0F)       (1654\'b0F)        (1656\'b0F)         (0\'b0F) \
\
                                          ILLUSTRATION P3.3.5 \
\
    1. (A) & (B) indications/data illustrated above; Subsequent (D) & (E) indications/data not illustrated above. \
    2. Calculated deviation from initial delta shall be \uc0\u8804  1\'baC (\u8804  2\'b0F). \
\
-52- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                           CQI-9 \
                                          Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                               Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                   EXAMPLE OF COMPARATIVE METHOD \
                        PERFORMED WITH A RESIDENT THERMOCOUPLE \
\
              900\uc0\u8451           Control        Temp. High Limit \
                            Thermocouple     Thermocouple \
\
    Temp.       Control \
  Recorder    Instrument                                          Temp. \
                                                                 High Limit \
\
                                                                Qualified Work Zone \
ead Wire \
\
                 901\uc0\u8451                                            Furnace Wall \
\
                           Resident FURNACE SYSTEM \
                                                                     Thermocouple Head \
                           Thermocouple \
             Test Instrument \
\
               Example of a Comparative Method System Accuracy Test (SAT) \
         Performed with a Resident Thermocouple on the Temperature Control System \
\
   CONTROL       RESIDENT                 CONTROL        RESIDENT      CALCULATED \
  INSTRUMENT   THERMOCOUPLE              INSTRUMENT    THERMOCOUPLE     DEVIATION \
TEMPERATURE    TEMPERATURE              TEMPERATURE    TEMPERATURE     FROM INITIAL \
   AT TIME OF   INDICATION   INITIAL DELTA AT TIME OF INDICATION ON TEST DELTA(2) \
  INSTRUMENT      ON TEST                 MONTHLY       INSTRUMENT \
                                                         AT TIME OF \
CALIBRATION(1) INSTRUMENT(1)              CHECK(1) \
                                                     MONTHLY CHECK(1) \
\
      (A)           (B)      (C) = (B) - (A) (D)            (E)         (E) - (D) - (C) \
    900\'b0C         901\'b0C        + 1.0\'b0C     901\'b0C          902\'b0C            0\'b0C \
   (1652\'b0F)      (1654\'b0F)     (+ 2.0\'b0F)   (1654\'b0F)       (1656\'b0F)         (0\'b0F) \
\
                                 ILLUSTRATION P3.3.6 \
\
   (A) & (B) indications/data illustrated above; Subsequent (D) & (E) indications/data not illustrated above \
   Calculated deviation from initial delta shall be \uc0\u8804  1\u8451  (\u8804 2\'baF) \
\
                                                                                 -53- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                      AIAG \
\
    P3.3.5 System Accuracy Test Records shall include the following: \
              \'b7 Identification of the thermocouple being tested \
              \'b7 Identification of the test thermocouple \
              \'b7 Identification of the test instrument \
              \'b7 Date and time of day of the test \
              \'b7 Control instrument setpoint value \
              \'b7 Observed control instrument reading \
              \'b7 Observed test instrument reading \
              \'b7 Test thermocouple and test instrument correction factors \
              \'b7 Corrected test instrument reading \
              \'b7 Calculated system accuracy test difference \
              \'b7 Indication of test acceptance or failure \
              \'b7 Name and signature (written or electronic) of technician performing the test \
              \'b7 Accreditation symbol (or equivalent) if not performed in-house \
              \'b7 External calibration company if applicable \
              \'b7 Sign-off by responsible person in the heat treat organization (written or electronic) \
\
-54- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                         CQI-9 \
AIAG                                     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                Fourth Edition, Issued TBD \
\
              TABLE P3.3.1 SYSTEM ACCURACY TEST REQUIREMENTS \
\
                                           REQUIRED             MAXIMUM \
      METHOD          SAT SENSOR          SAT TESTING        SAT DIFFERENCE \
                          TYPE            FREQUENCY             ALLOWED \
\
                     Types B, R and S \
                       Noble Metal \
                                                              + 5.0\'b0C (+ 10.0\'baF) \
    Probe Method                            Quarterly \
                    Types K, N, J and E                            (1,3) \
                       Base Metal \
\
                     Types B, R and S \
                       Noble Metal \
    Comparative \
                                                              + 1.0\'b0C (+ 2.0\'baF) \
    Method                                   Monthly \
                    Types K, N, J and E                            (2,3) \
                       Base Metal \
\
   1.    Maximum value of the Calculated SAT difference (see P3.3.4.1.3 and P3.3.4.2.5). \
   2.    Maximum deviation from initial delta (see P3.3.4.3.3) \
   3.    Total offset/bias assigned to the correction of an SAT error shall not exceed 3.0\'b0\uc0\u8451  (5.0\'baF). \
         This permissible offset/bias is separate from offset/bias assignable to a Calibration error or \
         TUS. \
\
                                                                              -55- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
    P3.4 Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) \
\
    P3.4.1 General TUS Requirements: Temperature uniformity characteristics, qualified work zones, and \
    operating temperature ranges of furnaces or ovens are validated by performing a TUS. \
\
    The TUS shall be performed in accordance with the appropriate Process Table and the requirements of \
    this section. \
\
     TUS frequencies are specified in the applicable Process Tables. The grace period of two (2) weeks is \
    allowed for all temperature uniformity surveys. \
\
    If a TUS cannot be performed within the prescribed interval requirements, the furnace shall not be used \
    for production. A TUS shall be performed prior to the furnace being used for production. \
\
           P3.4.1.1 Any furnace modification or repair that could alter the temperature uniformity \
           characteristics of the furnace shall result in a temperature uniformity survey being performed \
           prior to the furnace system being used for processing. See "Furnace Modifications" and "Furnace \
           Repairs" in the Glossary for further guidance. \
\
            P3.4.1.2 All furnace modifications or repairs shall be documented and include the determination \
           made by the responsible authority within the organization as to whether these modifications or \
           repairs could alter the temperature uniformity characteristics of the furnace. \
\
            P3.4.1.3 TUS Test Temperatures: If the operating temperature range of the qualified work \
            zone is equal to or less than 170\'b0C (305\'baF) then only one temperature within the operating. \
            temperature range is required to be tested. If the operating temperature range of the qualified \
           work zone is greater than 170\'b0\uc0\u8451  (305\'baF) then the minimum and maximum temperatures of the \
            operating temperature range shall be tested. For aluminum heat treating, a tighter temperature \
            range is given in Process Table C, C2.4. \
\
           P3.4.1.4 TUS Furnace Parameters: When performing any temperature uniformity survey the \
           furnace system parameters during the test shall replicate the furnace system parameters during \
           normal production. If atmospheres used during production present safety risks or could affect the \
           accuracy of test thermocouples during a TUS an atmosphere of air or inert gas may be used. \
\
            The TUS may be performed with an empty furnace. If the furnace is empty, then the \
           thermocouples shall be attached to a fixture to ensure required test locations are securely held. \
\
           If the TUS is performed with a loaded furnace the load shall replicate typical operations and the \
           thermocouples shall be attached to or buried in the load. \
\
            P3.4.1.5 Use of Heat Sinks: If the TUS is performed without a load the TUS test thermocouples \
           may be attached to or inserted into heat sinks, however the heat sink shall represent the typical \
           section size of the heat treated product. In addition, the heat sink shall possess similar heat \
           transfer characteristics of the material that is typically processed in the furnace under test. \
\
-56- \
<<<\page \
\
              --                                                       CQI-9 \
                                       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG\'ae                                                          Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
      P3.4.1.6 Furnace Vacuum Level during TUS: The furnace vacuum shall be run at the lowest \
      set point employed in normal production but need not be less than 1 micron Hg (1 x 10-3 Torr, or \
      1.3 x 10-3 millibar) when performing a TUS: \
\
.4.2 Continuous and Semi-Continuous Furnaces \
\
      P3.4.2.1 TUS Methods: Continuous and semi-continuous furnaces shall be surveyed so that the \
      volume defined as the qualified work zone is tested. TUS test sensors shall be arranged either \
      three dimensionally (Volumetric Method) or in a plane (Plane Method). \
\
      P3.4.2.2 Number and Location of TUS Thermocouples \
\
      P3.4.2.2.1 Volumetric Method: Shall be used with semi-continuous furnaces or other furnace \
      systems where parts are indexed or sequenced from the charge end to the discharge end, e.g. \
      pusher furnaces. See Table P3.4.1 for number of TUS thermocouples. See Figure P3.4.1 for the \
     location of the TUS thermocouples. \
\
      P3.4.2.2.2 Plane Method: Shall be used for continuous furnaces where the product is \
      continuously moving through the furnace, e.g. belt furnaces. See Table P3.4.2 for number of \
      thermocouples. Refer to Figure P3.4.2 for the location of the TUS thermocouples. \
\
      P3.4.2.3 TUS Data Collection: \
\
      P3.4.2.3.1 TUS test thermocouples shall be traversed through the furnace at a traverse speed \
      typically used in production and representing all test locations as required in Table P3.4.1 and \
      Figure P3.4.1 or Table P3.4.2 and Figure P3.4.2 as appropriate. \
\
      P3.4.2.3.2 Data collection shall begin when the TUS test thermocouples are loaded into the \
      furnace. All data collected shall be included in the TUS reporting. \
\
      All temperature data generated by the TUS test thermocouples shall be recorded automatically at \
      least every thirty seconds. The process record for furnace zone temperature shall be compared to \
      the TUS data to ensure compliance to TUS requirements. Manual data collection is not allowed. \
\
      TUS data collected shall clearly show the soak period achieved so that the responsible person in \
      the heat treat organization can determine compliance with internal process specifications defining \
      suitable soak time. \
\
3.4.3 Batch/Chamber Furnaces \
\
      P3.4.3.1 TUS Methods: Batch/Chamber furnaces shall be surveyed so that the volume defined \
      as the qualified work zone is tested. For Batch/Chamber furnaces with multiple, independently \
      controlled chambers (e.g. multiple control zones and qualified work zones), the performance of a \
      TUS shall be required for each individual chamber. The TUS test thermocouples shall be \
      arranged three dimensionally (Volumetric Method) as illustrated in Figure P3.4.1. \
\
      P3.4.3.2 Number of TUS Thermocouples: The required number of TUS thermocouples shall \
      be in accordance with the TUS Test Thermocouple Table P3.4.1. \
\
                                                                             -57- \
<<<\page \
                                                                                                        --- \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
           P3.4.3.3 Location of TUS Thermocouples: See Figure P3:4.1 for the typical location of \
           thermocouples in rectangular and cylindrical shaped furnaces. For furnace work zone volumes \
           greater than 8.5m3 (300ft3), the thermocouple locations shall be similar to the example in Figure \
           P3.4.1 and the additional thermocouples shall be located to best represent the qualified work \
            zone. \
\
           P3.4.3.4 TUS Data Collection: Data collection shall begin when the TUS thermocouples are \
           loaded into the furnace. All temperature data generated by the TUS thermocouples and recorded \
           on the process record for furnace zone temperature shall be recorded automatically at a frequency \
           of at least one set of readings every two minutes for the duration of the survey. Manual data \
           collection is not allowed. \
\
            The process record for furnace zone temperature shall be compared to the TUS data to ensure \
           compliance to TUS requirements. \
\
            P3.4.3.4.1 When the furnace temperature control achieves set point temperature, displaying a \
           normal control cycling around set point, and the TUS test thermocouples have stabilized, then the \
            TUS data collection shall continue for an additional thirty minutes minimum. \
\
    P3.4.4 Permissible TUS Test Thermocouple Failures: The permissible TUS test thermocouple failure \
    rate is defined below: \
\
                   When using 3 to 9 thermocouples         0 failures are permitted \
                  When using 10 to 16 thermocouples        1 failure is permitted \
                  When using greater than 16 thermocouples Less than or equal to 10% failures \
\
    A temporary condition such as a short or loose connection or momentary loss of telemetry signal where \
  : normal temperature readout is restored shall not be considered a failed TUS test thermocouple. No corner \
    position failures of a TUS test thermocouple are allowed. \
\
    P3:4.5 TUS Pass/Fail Requirements: \
\
           P3.4.5.1 Evaluation of temperature readings for TUS thermocouples and control thermocouples \
           shall be performed relative to the set point temperature unless the qualified work zone is \
           controlled indirectly. In this case the evaluation shall be performed relative to the target \
           temperature and confirmed against the process record. \
\
           A temperature uniformity survey shall be acceptable if all previous requirements are met \
           including the following: \
               \'b7   All TUS thermocouples and control thermocouples readings are within the respective \
                   temperature tolerance requirements shown in the applicable Process Table during the \
                   defined soak period. \
               \'b7   The upper temperature tolerance shall not be exceeded at any time. Exceptions may exist \
                   in systems where multiple process temperatures exist in a single process cycle. \
               \'b7   The time required achieving recovery, stabilization or recurrent temperature pattern did \
                   not exceed the time limit specified in any applicable process specifications. TUS is run \
                   for the minimum required time. \
\
-58- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                          CQI-9 \
                                         Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                              Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
          \'b7   The organization's internal process specification defining suitable soak time was met. \
             Internal process specification shall define suitable soak time at temperature requirements. \
\
       P3.4.5.2 Reaction to TUS Failures: If the temperature uniformity tolerance is not within the \
       established limits in the applicable Process Table, the cause of the deviation shall be determined \
       and documented. The equipment shall not be used for additional processing until the cause has \
       been corrected and the TUS has been performed successfully. \
\
       P3.4.5.2.1 If the Qualified Operating Temperature Range of the qualified work zone is equal to \
       or less than 170\'b0C (305\'baF) then the initial TUS test temperature shall be resurveyed. If the \
       Qualified Operating Temperature Range of the qualified work zone exceeds 170\uc0\u8451  (305\'b0F) then \
       both initial TUS test temperatures shall be resurveyed. \
\
>3.4.6 TUS Instrumentation: TUSs shall be performed using independent test instrumentation meeting \
he requirements of Table P3.2.1 - Instrument Calibration Requirements and independent test \
hermocouples meeting the requirements of Table P3.1.3 - Thermocouples. \
\
       P3.4.6.1 Compensation for known deviations in the test instrumentation shall be made by \
       electronic or mathematical corrections. \
\
P3.4.7 TUS Report: The items listed below shall be included in the temperature uniformity survey \
report: \
          \'b7 Furnace identification \
          \'b7 Method of TUS \
          \'b7 Empty or loaded; if loaded, identify load rate or load condition \
          \'b7 Survey test temperature(s) \
          \'b7 TUS thermocouple quantity and location identification including a detailed diagram in \
             three-dimensional space, or detailed description or photograph(s) of any load, rack or set- \
             up \
          \'b7 Control instrument tuning parameters, e.g. - PID values \
          \'b7   TUS thermocouple calibration report to include correction factors or error/deviation \
          \'b7 Survey test instrument identification number \
          \'b7 Survey test instrument calibration report to include calibration data and correction factors \
             or error/deviation for each adjustable channel or input \
          \'b7 Corrected readings of all TUS thermocouples at each survey temperature. Readings shall \
             be identified as corrected \
          \'b7 Any furnace limitations or restrictions identified by the TUS \
          \'b7   Testing company identification (if not performed in-house) \
          \'b7 Name and signature of the technician performing the TUS \
          \'b7 Survey start / stop time and start / stop date \
          \'b7 The data collection period or soak period as applicable shall be identified \
          \'b7 Soak time required vs soak time achieved \
          \'b7 Documentation of any furnace survey thermocouple catastrophic failures \
\
                                                                                 -59- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                             AIAG \
\
               \'b7   Time and temperature profile data for all TUS thermocouples and control thermocouples \
                   for all zones tested; Control thermocouple data shall be generated by the associated \
                   process recorder or process data acquisition system \
               \'b7   Indication of test pass or test fail status \
               \'b7   Summary of final plus and minus readings at each test temperature \
               \'b7   Sign-off by responsible person in the heat treat organization \
\
    P3.4.8 Alternative TUS Testing Methods: It is incumbent upon the Heat Treater to provide objective \
    evidence that the temperature uniformity characteristics of thermal processing equipment meet the \
    requirements of the applicable Process Table(s) and satisfy the intent of this document. \
\
    In instances where it is impossible or impractical to traverse or insert TUS test thermocouples through or \
    into the furnace work zone(s) due to the design characteristics of the furnace system, the Heat Treater \
    shall be required to perform Property Surveys or develop an acceptable alternative TUS testing method. \
\
            P3.4.8.1 Property Surveys: The purpose of a property survey shall be to establish and routinely \
            evaluate those characteristics that are sensitive to variations in process temperatures to ensure and \
            objectively demonstrate that each furnace process is capable of consistently yielding an \
            acceptable product. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1 Initial Property Survey: Initial property surveys shall establish baseline data against \
            which subsequent product property trends shall be performed. If possible, the selected product is \
            processed frequently and the typical process lot size range shall be representative in the selected \
            product. When a two-step process is under review, the second step can be run on the samples \
            independent from the remainder of the lot. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1.1 For initial property surveys, a minimum of one product property survey shall be \
           performed at each required survey temperature. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1.2 For batch/chamber furnaces and semi-continuous furnaces or other furnace systems \
            where parts are indexed or sequenced from the charge end to the discharge (e.g. pushers), at a \
            minimum, product shall be sampled from the corners and the center of the load. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1.3 For continuous furnaces where the product is continuously moving through the \
            furnace (e.g. belt furnaces), at a minimum, efforts shall be made to sample product across the \
            work zone at the beginning, middle, and end of the lot. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1.4 Any furnace relocation, modification or repair that could alter the temperature \
            uniformity characteristics of the furnace shall result in an initial property survey being performed. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.1.5 All furnace modifications or repairs shall be documented and include the \
            determination made by the responsible authority within the organization as to whether these \
            modifications or repairs could alter the temperature uniformity characteristics of the furnace. \
\
            P3.4.8.1.2 Property Survey Test Temperatures: If the operating temperature range of the \
            furnace is equal to or less than 170\uc0\u8451  (305\'baF), then only one temperature within the operating \
            temperature range shall be represented by the product property survey. If the operating \
            temperature range of the furnace is greater than 170\uc0\u8451  (305\'baF), then the minimum and maximum \
            temperatures of the operating range shall each be represented by a product property survey. \
\
-60- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                       CQI-9 \
                                       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                           Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
      P3.4.8.1.3 Property Survey Test Parameters: It is strongly recommended that subsequent \
      property surveys be performed utilizing similar product and furnace setup at or near the initial \
      property survey temperature(s) and product locations. At a minimum, subsequent property \
      surveys shall be performed every six months. \
\
      P3.4.8.1.3.1 All control thermocouples readings shall be within the respective temperature \
      tolerance requirements shown in the applicable Process Table during the property survey. \
\
      P3.4.8.1.4 Property Survey Procedure: When property surveys are used, a documented \
      procedure shall exist, which at a minimum, clearly describes each of the following: \
         \'b7 The temperature-critical part quality characteristics \
         \'b7 The acceptable tolerances of each characteristic \
         \'b7 The test methods used to check each characteristic \
         \'b7 The test equipment used \
         \'b7 The quantity of parts tested \
         \'b7 The defined part sampling locations \
         \'b7 The operating temperature range of the furnace system \
         \'b7 The person qualified to evaluate and approve data/reporting \
         \'b7 The response process to part failures/unfavorable data (e.g. Action Plan) \
\
      P3.4.8.1.5 Reaction to Failures: In the event that property data exceeds assigned tolerances, the \
      cause of the failure shall be determined and documented. The equipment shall not be used for \
      additional processing until the cause has been sufficiently mitigated and/or corrected and \
      passing/acceptable property data has been collected. \
\
      P3.4.8.1.6 Reporting: The items listed below shall be included in the property survey report: \
         \'b7 Identification of property survey procedure used \
         \'b7 Furnace identification \
         \'b7 Product identification \
         \'b7 Product lot identification \
         \'b7 Identification of part quality characteristic being tested \
         \'b7 Initial baseline test data \
         \'b7 Identification of process type \
         \'b7 Operating temperature range / test temperature(s) \
         \'b7 Identification load rate or load condition \
         \'b7 Identification of product sampling locations \
         \'b7 Survey start / stop date and time \
         \'b7 Time and temperature data for all control thermocouples. Control thermocouple data shall \
            be generated by the associated process recorder or process data acquisition system during \
            sampling. \
         \'b7 Assigned product tolerance requirements \
         \'b7 Product property survey data \
\
                                                                             -61- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                         AIAG \
\
               \'b7 Indication of pass or fail status of product property survey \
               \'b7 Test instrument identification number \
               \'b7 Name & Signature of the technician performing the property survey \
               \'b7 Sign-off by responsible person in the heat treat organization \
\
           P3.4.8.2 Site-Developed Alternative TUS Testing Methods: \
\
           P3.4.8.2.1 Site-developed alternative TUS testing methods shall require a documented procedure \
           which, at a minimum, clearly addresses each of the following: \
               \'b7 Description of test method(s) and testing parameters \
               \'b7 Intended data to be collected and evaluated \
               \'b7 Assigned process, part, and/or test tolerance(s) \
               \'b7 Test pass/fail requirements \
               \'b7 Reaction plan to failures or unfavorable data \
               \'b7 Description of all test equipment and materials \
\
           P3.4.8.2.2 Site-developed alternative TUS testing methods shall be validated and approved by \
           the responsible person within the heat treat organization. \
\
           P3.4.8.2.3 At a minimum, test reporting shall meet the requirements of P3.4.7 and/or P3.4.8.1.6 \
           as applicable. \
\
-62- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                    CQI-9 \
                                    Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                       Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                     Table P3.4.1 - TUS Test Thermocouple \
\
                                                     0.1 to 8.5m3 \
              Workspace Volume       < 0.1 m3 (3ft3) \
                                                    (3ft3 to 300ft3) \
           Number of Thermocouples        5              9 \
                         (VOLUMETRIC METHOD) \
\
    Note 1. For furnace volumes greater than 8.5 m3 (300ft3), add at a minimum one thermocouple \
         for each additional 3 m3 (105 ft3) up to 85 m3 (3000ft3). For furnace volumes greater than \
         85 m3 (3000ft3) add at a minimum two additional TUS test thermocouples for each 14 m3 \
         (500ft3). For example, for a 113.2 m3 (4000 ft3) furnace, 39 TUS test thermocouples shall \
         be used at a minimum. \
\
    Note 2. Total offset/bias attributable to the centering of a TUS shall not exceed 3\'baC (5\'baF). This \
         permissible offset/bias is separate from offset/bias assignable to the correction of a \
         calibration error or an SAT error. \
\
                 0    Represents thermocouple locations \
                      Represents a center thermocouple location \
\
         Figure P3.4.1 - Volumetric Method TUS Test Thermocouple Locations \
\
                                                                          -63- \
<<<\page \
\
    CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
    Fourth Edition, June 2020                                       AIAG \
\
                   Table P3.4.2 - Number and Location of the TUS Thermocouples \
                                       (PLANE METHOD) \
\
                                                     Qualified work zone height \
                                            \uc0\u8804  300 mm (1 ft.)           > 300 mm (1 ft.) \
                                                                          see Note 2 \
     Qualified work zone width                see Note 1 \
     < 0.3 m (1 ft.)                               2                           4 \
                                                   3                           5 \
     0.3 m to 0.75 m (1 ft. - 2.5 ft.) \
                                                   3                           7 \
     0.75 m to 1.5 m (2.5 ft. - 5 ft.) \
                                                   3                           8 \
     1.5 m to 2.4 m (5 ft. - 8 ft.) \
                                       Add one thermocouple for \
                                                                               8 \
     > 2.4 m (8 ft.)                      each 0.6 m (2 ft.) of \
                                            additional width \
\
          Note 1: For qualified work zone widths greater than 0.3 m (1 ft.), two TUS thermocouple \
                locations shall be within 50 mm (2 inches) of the work zone corners or edge and one TUS \
                thermocouple location shall be at the center. Additional TUS thermocouples shall be \
                 uniformly distributed throughout a plane perpendicular to the conveyance direction. \
\
          Note 2: Four TUS thermocouple locations shall be within 50 mm (2 inches) of the work zone \
                                                                                  about the \
                 corners and the remainder shall be at the center and symmetrically distributed \
                center of a plane perpendicular to the conveyance direction. \
\
-64- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                         CQI-9 \
                                        Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                             Qualified work zone height \
             \uc0\u8804  300 mm (1 ft.)                         > 300 mm (1 ft.) \
\
   HEIGHT \
\
                                            HEIGHT \
\
                   WIDTH                                    WIDTH \
\
   HEIGHT \
\
                                            HEIGHT \
\
                   WIDTH                                    WIDTH \
\
                                            HEIGHT \
\
   HEIGHT \
\
                   WIDTH                                    WIDTH \
\
                                            HEIGHT \
\
   HEIGHT \
\
                   WIDTH                                    WIDTH \
\
                                                     L \
\
                            W \
\
                         Represents thermocouple locations \
                         Represents a center thermocouple location \
\
             Figure P3.4.2 - Plane Method TUS Test Thermocouple Locations \
\
                                                                               -65- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                            AIAG \
\
     Instructions for Completing the Job Audit \
     The organization shall complete a job audit during the annual HTSA. The scope of the job audit is \
     intended to verify the overall effectiveness of the heat treat system. \
     The job audit shall be conducted on a specific lot that is in process or has been recently processed but not \
     yet shipped. In subsequent heat treat system assessments, different parts and heat treat processes shall be \
     audited. \
     An automotive manufacturer's part shall be used in performing the job audit. If an automotive \
    manufacturer's part is not available, the selected part shall be another part processed in compliance with \
     CQI-9. The job audit shall be performed when applicable parts are available. \
     Each processing step shall be reviewed for proper production records/compliance/inspection. These steps \
     can be compared to those in the HTSA for the actual job/heat treat process being reviewed for \
     compliance. The heat treat and furnace records for the actual time frame/shift etc. that the job was \
    processed shall also be audited. \
     Address each "Fail" item immediately. Any fail item shall result in the update of the corresponding \
     HTSA element (see Heat Treat System Assessment Procedure). \
\
-66- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                      CQI-9 \
                                                Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
Jection 4 Job Audit \
\
                                  Job Identity: \
                                    Customer: \
                            Shop Order Number: \
                                  Part Number: \
\
                               Part Description: \
                                     Material: \
                        Heat Treat Requirements: \
\
                                                                 Job (Shop) Order Actual    Pass / \
                                              Related Customer \
                                                                   or Reference   Condition \
                                                                                            Fail / \
Question #          Job Audit Question         HTSA    or Internal Documentation (Objective \
                                             Question # Requirement                          NA \
                                                                   Requirement   Evidence) \
\
    4.1   Does the heat treat facility have the customer 1.5 \
          specifications for the part? \
          Is material identification (part numbers, lot 2.2 \
    4.2   numbers, heat numbers, contract numbers, etc.) 2.3 \
          maintained throughout the heat treat process? 2.4 \
                                                1.6 \
    4.3   Are the Loading/Racking requirements 2.7 \
          identified?                           2.9 \
\
                                                1.5 \
          Is the proper recipe or process specification 1.6 \
    4.4   (cycle times, temperature, atmosphere, etc.) 2.1 \
          used? Refer to Process Tables, Section 3.0, for 2.14 \
          specific parameters.                 2.15 \
\
          What are the product inspection requirements \
    4.5                                        2.15 \
          per the Control Plan? \
    4.5.1 Requirement: (1) \
\
           Test Method: \
\
           Test frequency or quantity: \
\
          Selection cf samples: \
\
           Specification: \
    4.5.2 Requirement: (2) \
\
           Test Method: \
\
           Test frequency or quantity: \
\
           Selection of samples: \
\
           Specification: \
    4.5.3 Requirement: (3) \
\
           Test Method: \
\
           Test frequency or quantity: \
\
           Selection of samples: \
\
           Specification: \
\
                                                                                               -67- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                             AIAG \
\
                                                                                     Job (Shop) Order      Actual \
                                                             Related    Customer                                      Pass / \
                                                                                       or Reference      Condition \
      Question #             Job Audit Question               HTSA      or Internal                                   Fail / \
                                                                                      Documentation      (Objective \
                                                            Question # | Requirement                                   NA \
                                                                                       Requirement       Evidence) \
         4.5.4   Requirement: (4) \
\
                 Test Method: \
\
                 Test frequency or quantity: \
\
                 Selection of samples: \
\
                 Specification: \
\
                 Operator or Inspector Responsibilities \
                                                                1.4 \
                                                               2.2 \
         4.6     Were appropriate process steps signed off?    2.3 \
                                                               2.14 \
         4.7     Were all inspection steps, as documented in the 1.2 \
                 control plan performed?                        1.4 \
                                                                1.2 \
                 Were steps/operations performed that were not \
         4.8                                                    1.4 \
                 documented in the control plan?                1.6 \
                                                                1.2 \
                                                                1.4 \
                 If additional steps were performed, were they \
          4.9                                                   1.6 \
                 authorized? \
                                                               1.11 \
                                                               1.17 \
\
        \'b7 4.10   Does the governing specification allow        1.11 \
                 reprocessing or rework? \
\
                 If the order was certified, did the certification 2.14 \
         4.11 \
                 accurately reflect the process performed?     2.15 \
\
                 Was the certification signed by an authorized \
         4.12                                                  1.17 \
                 individual? \
\
         4.13    Are the parts and containers free of          2.6 \
                 inappropriate objects or contamination?       2.11 \
\
                 Packaging Requirements \
\
         4.14    Are packaging requirements identified?        2.9 \
\
                 Are parts packaged to minimize mixed parts (for \
         4.15                                                  2.9. \
                 example, parts packed over height of container)? \
\
                 Shipping Requirements \
                                                               2.3 \
         4.16    Were the parts properly identified? \
                                                               2.9 \
                                                               2.3 \
         4.17    Were the containers properly labeled? \
                                                               2.9 \
\
-68- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                        CQI-9 \
                                                Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                         Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
PROCESS TABLE A - CARBURIZING / CARBONITRIDING / CARBON \
RESTORATION / HARDENING / AUSTEMPERING / MARTEMPERING / TEMPERING \
 PRECIPITATION HARDENING - AGING \
\
    PROCESS TABLE A - Carburizing / Carbonitriding / Carbon Restoration / Hardening / \
         Austempering / Martempering / Tempering / Precipitation Hardening - Aging \
All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, the \
auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
Continuous furnace frequencies for item numbers A4.2, A4.3, and A4.4 are per lot (work order) or as specified, whichever is more \
frequent. \
\
OK - Complies to requirement \
NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
       Related \
Item # HTSA                               Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
\
  1.0                          PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                 OK / NOK / NA \
\
         3.1   Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective atmosphere \
 A1.1 \
         3.7   monitoring unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices. \
               A program for furnace, generator, and oxygen probe burnout is required (applies to carbon bearing \
 A1.2    1.18 \
               atmospheres). \
 A1.3    3.2   Furnace loading weigh scales shall be verified quarterly and calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
               Dew pointers, gas analyzers, spectrometers, and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil \
 A1.4    3.2 \
               analysis), used to verify carbon potential in furnaces, shall be calibrated annually at a minimum. \
               Verification of spectrometers and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil analysis) shall be : \
 A1.5    3.2 \
               performed daily or prior to use. \
\
               Verification of gas analyzers with zero gas and span gas when used as the back-up verification shall \
 A1.6    3.2   be performed weekly at a minimum. When used for primary control of the carbon-bearing \
               atmospheres, verification shall be daily. \
               Atmosphere controllers shall be calibrated quarterly (single-point or multi-point calibration). \
 A1.7    3.2 \
               A six month calibration interval is allowed if multi-point calibration is utilized. \
\
         2.16 Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at a \
 A1.8 \
         3.2   minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent standard, \
               and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
 A1.9    2.16 Files for testing hardness shall be verified per the Customer requirement. \
\
                                                                  solutions shall be verified \
 A1.10   3.2   Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer \
               prior to use with distilled water. \
\
  2.0                                         PYROMETRY                                OK / NOK / NA \
\
         3.2 \
 A2.1                                of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
         3.3   Thermocouples and calibration \
         3.2 \
 A2.2          Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
         3.3 \
\
                                                                                                -69- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                            AIAG \
\
               Related \
      Item #    HTSA                                   Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
\
        2.0                                                 PYROMETRY                                        OK / NOK / NA \
\
                 3.2    System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall conform to \
       A2.3      3.3 \
                        Section P3.3. \
\
                        Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per Section \
                        P3.4. \
       A2.4      3.4 \
                        Temperature uniformity tolerance for austentizing furnaces shall be +/- 15\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 25\'b0F). \
                        Temperature uniformity tolerance for tempering and precipitation hardening furnaces shall be +/- 10\uc0\u8451  \
                        (or +/- 20\'b0F). \
                        Temperature(s) for austentizing processes shall be controlled within +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'b0F) of the set \
                        point.as evidenced by recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times \
       A2.5      3.5    starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                        For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
                        Temperature(s) for tempering and precipitation hardening processes shall be controlled within +/- 5\'b0\uc0\u8451  \
                        (or +/- 10\'b0F) of the set point as evidenced by recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be \
       A2.6      3.5    controlled with soak times starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                        For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
                        Non-contact thermometry devices used for temperature monitoring (e.g. infrared pyrometer, thermal \
       A2.7      3.2    imaging camera) shall be calibrated annually at a minimum in the temperature range to be used \
                        utilizing a blackbody device or per the manufacturer's recommended procedure. \
\
                                                               REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                        PROCESS MONITORING \
        3.0 \
                             PARAMETERS          Batch (Chamber)        Continuous           Atmosphere      OK / NOK / NA \
                                                     Furnace              Furnace            Generation \
\
                                               Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                               with alarm system set with alarm system set \
                                                                                        Generators shall be \
                                               per limits in A2.5 and per limits in A2.5 and \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                               A2.6. In absence of A2.6. In absence of \
                 1.4    Monitor primary        alarm system, sign-off alarm system, sign-off and recorded. Sign-off \
       A3.1      1.6    temperature control    every 2 hours and at every 2 hours and at required for each shift \
                2.14   instrument(s).          the end of the cycle, or the end of the cycle, or for generators. An \
                                                                                        alarm system will satisfy \
                                               each cycle for      each cycle for \
                                                                                        the sign-off \
                                               processes under 2   processes under 2 \
                                                                                        requirement. \
                                               hours satisfies this hours satisfies this \
                                               requirement.        requirement. \
\
                                                                                        Generators shall be \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                                                                        and recorded. Other \
                 1,4 \
                2.14                                                                    systems, such as \
       A3.2             Monitor atmosphere \
                 3.7    generation as applicable.                                       nitrogen-methanol \
                3.11                                                                    systems, may either be \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                                                                        and alarmed, or sign-off \
                                                                                        every 2 hours. \
\
-70- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                            CQI-9 \
                                                  Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                            Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                                                  REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                PROCESS MONITORING \
  3.0                                                     Continuous                      OK / NOK / NA \
                    PARAMETERS        Batch (Chamber)                       Atmosphere \
                                          Furnace           Furnace          Generation \
\
.. \
                                    Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                    with alarm system. In with alarm system. In \
                                    absence of alarm absence of alarm \
          1.4 \
                                          sign-off every 2 system, sign-off every 2 \
          1.6   Monitor primary furnace system, \
 A3.3                               hours and at the end of hours and at the end of \
         2.14   atmosphere control(s). \
                                             each cycle the cycle, or each cycle \
          3.7                       the cycle, or \
                                    for processes under 2 for processes under 2 \
                                    hours satisfies this hours satisfies this \
                                    requirement       requirement. \
\
          1.4 \
                Verify primary atmosphere \
         2.14 \
 A3.4           control method by back-up Daily       Daily             Daily \
          3.7 \
                method. \
          3.8 \
\
                For austenitizing salt \
          1.4   baths: Salt chemistry \
 A3.5    2.14   (soluble oxides) or Daily             Daily \
         3.13   decarburization on the \
                parts shall be checked. \
\
                                                      Sign-off twice/shift and \
                                                      after any change in the \
                                                      belt speed. Alarm \
          1.4   Monitor time in furnace, Each batch or \
 A3.6.                                                systems (if set per \
         2.14   cycle time, or belt speed. furnace load. \
                                                      acceptable limits) or \
                                                      continuous recording \
                                                      satisfy this requirement \
\
                                                      Sign-off twice/shift and \
                                                      after any change in \
                Monitor load size, fixturing,         loading rate. Alarm \
          1.4                       Each batch or \
 A3.7.          or loading rate as                    systems (if set per \
          2.7                       furnace load. \
                applicable.                           acceptable limits) or \
                                                      continuous recording \
                                                      satisfy this requirement \
\
                Quench Media Process \
                Parameters - Liquid \
\
                                    Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                    with sign-off every 2 with sign-off every 2 \
                                    hours and at the end of hours and at the end of \
                                    the cycle, or each cycle the cycle, or each cycle \
                Temperature         for processes under 2 for processes under 2 \
          1.4                       hours. Alarm systems hours. Alarm systems \
 A3.8 \
         2.12 .                     (if set per acceptable (if set per acceptable \
                                    limits) satisfy the sign- limits) satisfy the sign- \
                                    of requirement.   off requirement \
\
                                    Continuous monitor with alarm or daily \
                Quench Level \
                                    verification. \
\
                                    Daily visual check, or monitor the agitation during \
                Agitation           the quenching operation with alarm systems set \
                                    at acceptable limits. \
\
                                                                                                   -71- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                      AIAG \
\
              Related \
      Item #   HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
            Question # \
\
                                                            REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                       PROCESS MONITORING \
       3.0                                                                                             OK / NOK / NA \
                           PARAMETERS         Batch (Chamber)       Continuous         Atmosphere \
                                                  Furnace            Furnace            Generation \
\
                      Quench Media Process \
                      Parameters - Gas \
\
                      Pressure in the quench \
                                            Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                1.4   cell. \
       A3.9 \
               2.12 \
                      Fan speed or power.   Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
\
                      Cooling water temperature \
                                            Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                      and flow rate. \
\
                                                                Each basket for pusher- \
                                                                type continuous \
                                                                furnaces where the \
                                                                loaded basket is \
                                                                quenched. \
                1.4                         Each batch or \
      A3.10            Quench Delay Time \
               2.12                         furnace load. \
                                                                Not applicable for belt, \
                                                                shaker, or pusher \
                                                                furnaces where parts \
                                                                free-fall into the \
                                                                quench. \
\
                       Temper Delay Time - \
                       The maximum delay time \
                1.4   between quenching and Each batch or \
      A3.11                                                     Each load. \
               2.12   tempering shall be    furnace load. \
                       specified on the control \
                      plan and monitored. \
\
                                                            REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                         IN-PROCESS/FINAL \
       4.0                                                                                                 NOK / NA \
                         TEST PARAMETERS       Batch (Chamber)      Continuous          Atmosphere \
                                                  Furnace             Furnace           Generation \
\
                      Microstructure shall be \
                       checked at a low     Daily per furnace   Daily per furnace \
                      magnification of 100X and unless specified by unless specified by \
                1.4    a high magnification of Customer to be   Customer to be \
       A4.1 \
               2.15    400X or above.       checked with greater checked with greater \
                      Microstructure visual frequency, e.g. each frequency, e.g. each \
                      references shall be   batch.              load. \
                       available. \
\
                1.4    Surface hardness (when Each batch or     Each lot or \
       A4.2 \
               2.15    specified).          furnace load.       every 2 hours. \
\
                1.4    Core hardness (when Each batch or        Each lot or \
       A4.3 \
               2.15    specified).          furnace load.       every 4 hours. \
\
                1.4    Case Depth (when     Each batch or       Each lot or \
       A4.4 \
                2.15   specified).          furnace load.       every 4 hours. \
\
-72- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                          CQI-9 \
                                                                                       Assessment \
                                                  Special Process: Heat Treat System \
                                                                                Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
         Related \
 Item # HTSA                                Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
                   QUENCHANT AND                   REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                                                                                         OK / NOK / NA \
  5.0             \'b7 SOLUTION TEST     Batch \
                                           (Chamber)       Continuous       Atmosphere \
                    PARAMETERS            Furnace           Furnace          Generation \
\
                Polymer Quench Media \
\
                Concentration       Daily             Daily \
                                    Every six months Every six months \
          2.12 \
  A5.1                              (complete replacement (complete replacement \
          3.14                      of the quench media of the quench media \
                Cooling Curve Analysis and cleaning of the and cleaning of the \
                                    quench tank within six quench tank within six \
                                    months satisfies this months satisfies this \
                                    requirement).     requirement). \
                Water Quench Media \
\
                                    Every six months Every six months \
                                    (complete replacement (complete replacement \
          2.12 \
  A5.2                              of the quench media of the quench media \
          3.14 \
                Suspended solids    and cleaning of the and cleaning of the \
                                    quench tank within six quench tank within six \
                                    months satisfies this months satisfies this \
                                    requirement).     requirement). \
                Salt Quench Media \
          2.12 \
  A5.3 \
          3.14 Analysis and \
                                    Every six months: Every six months. \
                Contaminants \
                Brine or Caustic Quench \
                Media \
                Concentration and/or \
                                    Daily             Daily \
                Specific Gravity \
          2.12                      Every six months Every six months \
  A5.4 \
          3.14                      (complete replacement (complete replacement \
                                    of the quench media of the quench media \
                Suspended solids    and cleaning of the and cleaning of the \
                                    quench tank within six quench tank within six \
                                    months satisfies this months satisfies this \
                                    requirement).     requirement). \
\
                Oil Quench Media \
\
                Water content, suspended \
          2.12 \
  A5.5          solids, viscosity, cooling \
          3.14 \
                curve, maximum cooling Every six months. Every six months. \
                rate, total acid, and flash \
                point \
\
                Rust Preventive - \
  A5.6    2.13 Soluble Oll \
                Concentration       2x/week           2x/week \
\
                Cleaning Solution \
\
                Concentration of cleaner Daily        Daily \
  A5.7    2.11 \
                Temperature of solution \
                (required if temperature is \
                                    Each shift.       Each shift \
                specified to be above \
                ambient temperature). \
\
                                                                                                  -73- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
       Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                              AIAG \
\
      PROCESS TABLE B - NITRIDING (GAS) AND FERRITIC-NITROCARBURIZING \
      (GAS OR SALT) \
\
                  PROCESS TABLE B - Nitriding (Gas) and Ferritic-Nitrocarburizing (Gas or Salt) \
      All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
      The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, the auditor \
      shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
      Continuous furnace frequencies for item numbers B4.2, B4.3, 84.4, and B4.5 are per lot (work order) or as specified, whichever is more \
      frequent. \
\
      OK - Complies to requirement \
      NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
      NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
               Related \
       Item #   HTSA                                      Category/Process Steps \
              Question # \
        1.0                                   PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                             OK / NOK / NA \
\
                 3.1    Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective atmosphere monitoring \
        B1.1 \
                 3.7    unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices. \
        B1.2     1.18   A program for furnace and generator burnout is required. Not required for retort gas nitriding. \
     7 \
        B1.3     3.2    Furnace weigh scales shall be verified quarterly and calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
        B1.4     3.2    Gas analyzers, used to verify, proper atmosphere in furnaces, shall be calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
                        Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at a minimum, \
        B1.5     2.16   per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent standard, and verified per \
                        internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
        B1.6     2.16   Files for testing hardness shall be verified per the Customer requirement \
                        Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer solutions shall be verified prior to use \
        B1.7     3.2 \
                        with distilled water. \
\
         2.0                                                   PYROMETRY                                             / NOK / NA \
\
                 3.2 \
        B2.1 \
                 3.3    Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
                 3.2 \
        B2.2            Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
                 3.3 \
                 3.2 \
        B2.3            System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall conform to Section \
                 3.3    P3.3. \
                        Temperature        Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per Section P3.4. \
        B2.4     3.4 \
                        Temperature uniformity tolerance shall be +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (15\'baF). \
                        Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 10\'b0\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'b0F) of the set point as evidenced by \
                        recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times starting at the lower tolerance \
        B2.5     3.5    limit (as defined above). \
\
                        For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
-74- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                  CQI-9 \
\
                                                     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                                      Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
       Related \
Item # HTSA                                    Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
                                                      REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                PROCESS MONITORING \
 3.0                                Batch (Chamber)   Continuous                     Atmosphere   OK / NOK / NA \
                    PARAMETERS                                         Salt Bath \
                                        Furnace         Furnace                      Generation \
\
                                   Continuous      Continuous      Continuous \
                                   recording with alarm |recording with alarm recording with alarm | Generators shall be \
                                   system set per limits system set per limits system set per limits continuously \
                                   in B2.5. In absence in B2.5. In absence in B2.5. In absence monitored and \
                                   of alarm system, of alarm system, of alarm system, recorded. Sign-off \
               Monitor primary                                                     required for each \
         1.4                       sign-off every 2 sign-off every 2 sign-off every 2 \
 B3.1          temperature control                                                 shift for \
         2.14                      hours and at the end hours and at the end hours and at the end \
               instrument(s). \
                                   of the cycle, or each of the cycle, or each of the cycle, or each generators. An \
                                   cycle for processes cycle for processes cycle for processes alarm system will \
                                   under 2 hours   under 2 hours   under 2 hours   satisfy the sign-off \
                                   satisfies this satisfies this   satisfies this requirement. \
                                   requirement     requirement.    requirement. \
\
                                                                                   Generators shall be \
                                                                                   continuously \
                                                                                   monitored and \
                                                                                   recorded. Other \
         1.4                                                                       systems, such as \
         2.14 Monitor generator                                                    nitrogen-methanol \
 B3.2 \
         3.7   atmospheres, if applicable.                                         systems, may \
         3.11                                                                      either be: \
                                                                                   continuously \
                                                                                   monitored and \
                                                                                   alarmed, or sign- \
                                                                                   off every 2 hours. \
\
                                                   Continuous \
                                   Each furnace load \
                                                   recording with \
                                   or continuous \
                                                   alarms set per \
                                   recording with sign- \
                                                   acceptable limits. In \
                                   off every 2 hours \
          1.4                                      absence of alarm \
                                   and at the end of the \
         2.14              furnace                  system, sign-off \
 B3.3          Monitor primary      cycle, or each cycle \
         3.7    atmosphere control(s).              every 2 hours and at \
                                   for processes under \
         3.8                                       the end of the cycle, \
                                    2 hours. Alarm \
                                                   or each cycle for \
                                    systems satisfy the \
                                                   processes under 2 \
                                   sign-off \
                                                   hours satisfies this \
                                   requirement. \
                                                   requirement. \
\
                                    Document with sign- \
                                    off each furnace \
                                   load and every 4 \
                                   hours minimum and \
          1.4   Monitor dissociation \
 B3.4                         of    after any change. \
          3.7   ammonia for gas nitriding. \
                                    Automatic controls/ \
                                    alarm systems \
                                    satisfy the sign-off \
                                    requirement \
\
                                                                                                          -75- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
\
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                     AIAG \
\
              Related \
     Item #    HTSA                                         Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
                                                                    REQUIREMENTS I FREQUENCY \
                        PROCESS MONITORING \
       3.0                                                                                                              OK / NOK / NA \
                            PARAMETERS          Batch (Chamber)      Continuous         Salt Bath        Atmosphere. \
                                                    Furnace            Furnace                            Generation \
                                                                  Document with sign- \
                                               Document with sign- \
                                                                  off each furnace \
                                               off each furnace \
                                                                  load or every 4 \
                                               load and every 4 \
                                                                  hours minimum and \
                 1.4                           hours minimum and \
                        Monitor gas ratios for                    after any change. \
       B3.5      3.7                           after any change. \
                        ferritic nitrocarburizing.      controls/ Automatic \
                3.11                           Automatic \
                                                                  controls/alarm \
                                               alarm systems \
                                                                  systems satisfy the \
                                               satisfy the sign-off \
                                                                  sign-off \
                                               requirement. \
                                                                  requirement. \
                 1.4 \
       83.6     2.14    Check salt chemistry.                                       Daily \
                3.13 \
                 1.4    Check nitriding salt \
       B3.7                                                                         Daily \
                2.14.   aeration. \
                 1.4    Monitor cycle time in   Each batch or     Each batch or     Each batch or \
       B3.8 \
                2.14    furnace/salt bath.      furnace load.     furnace load.     furnace load. \
\
                 1.4                            Each batch or     Each batch or      Each batch or \
       B3.9             Monitor load size/fixturing. \
                 2.7                            furnace load.     furnace load.     furnace load. \
\
                        Quench Media Process \
                        Parameters \
                                                Each furnace load Each furnace load \
                                                or continuous     or continuous \
                                                recording with sign- recording with sign- Each batch or \
                                                off every 2 hours off every 2 hours continuous \
                                                and at the end of the and at the end of the recording with sign- \
                        Temperature             cycle, or each cycle [cycle, or each cycle off every 2 hours. \
                                                for processes under for processes under Alarm systems \
                                                2 hours. Alarm    2 hours. Alarm     satisfy the sign-off \
                                                systems satisfy the systems satisfy the requirement. \
                  1.4                           sign-off          sign-off \
      B3.10 \
                 2.12                           requirement       requirement. \
\
                                                Continuous monitor Continuous monitor \
                        Quench Level            with alarm or daily with alarm or daily Daily \
                                                verification.     verification. \
\
                                                Daily visual check, Daily visual check, \
                                                or monitor the    or monitor the \
                                                agitation during the agitation during the \
                         Agitation/Aeration     quenching operation quenching operation |Daily \
                                                with alarm systems with alarm systems \
                                                set at acceptable set at acceptable \
                                                limits.           limits. \
\
                                                                     REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
        4.0                IN-PROCESS/FINAL                                                                              OK I NOK I NA \
                                                 Batch (Chamber)      Continuous                          Atmosphere \
                           TEST PARAMETERS                                                Salt Bath \
                                                     Furnace            Furnace                            Generation \
\
                         Microstructure shall be \
                                                Daily per furnace Daily per furnace          furnace \
                         checked at a low                                            Daily per \
                                                unless specified by unless specified by unless specified by \
                         magnification of 100X and \
                                                Customer to be     Customer to be    Customer to be \
                  1.4    a high magnification of \
       B4.1                                     checked with       checked with \
                 2.15    400X or above.                                              checked with \
                                                greater frequency, greater frequency, greater frequency, \
                         Microstructure visual \
                                                e.g. each furnace e.g. each furnace e.g. each batch. \
                         references shall be \
                                                batch.             load. \
                         available. \
                  1.4    Surface hardness (when Each batch or      Each lot or       Each batch or \
       B4.2 \
                  2.15   specified)             furnace load.      every 2 hours.    furnace load. \
\
-76- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                              CQI-9 \
\
                                                    Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                                   Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
        Related \
 Item # HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
                                                    REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                 IN-PROCESSIFINAL                                                             OK / NOK / \
  4.0                                                                                                  NA \
                 TEST PARAMETERS   Batch (Chamber)   Continuous      Salt Bath    Atmosphere \
                                       Furnace        Furnace                      Generation \
\
          1.4 Core hardness (when Each batch or   Each lot or    Each batch or \
 B4.3                                                            furnace load. \
         2.15 specified).          furnace load. every 4 hours. \
          1.4 Case depth (when     Each batch or Each lot or     Each batch or \
 B4.4 \
         2.15 specified)           furnace load. every 4 hours. furnace load. \
          1.4 White layer/compound Each batch or Each lot or     Each batch or \
 B4.5                                                            furnace \
         2.15   zone (when specified) furnace load. every 4 hours.     load. \
\
                  QUENCHANT AND                     REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
  5.0              SOLUTION TEST    Batch (Chamber) Continuous                    Atmosphere OK / NOK / NA \
                   PARAMETERS          Furnace        Furnace        Salt Bath     Generation \
\
               Quench Media Controls \
               (if applicable) \
\
               Polymer Quench Media \
\
               Concentration       Daily          Daily          Daily \
\
         2.12                      Every six months Every six months Every six months \
 B5.1 \
         3.14                      (complete      (complete      (complete \
                                   replacement of the replacement of the replacement of the \
                                   quench media and quench media and quench media and \
               Contamination \
                                   cleaning of the cleaning of the cleaning of the \
                                   quench tank within quench tank within quench tank within \
                                   six months satisfies six months satisfies six months satisfies \
                                   this requirement). this requirement). this requirement). \
\
                Water Quench Media \
\
                                   Every six months Every six months Every six months \
                                   (complete      (complete      (complete \
          2.12                     replacement of the replacement of the replacement of the \
  B5.2 \
         3.14                      quench media and quench media and quench media and \
                Suspended solids \
                                   cleaning of the cleaning of the cleaning of the \
                                   quench tank within quench tank within quench tank within \
                                   six months satisfies six months satisfies six months satisfies \
                                   this requirement). this requirement). this requirement). \
\
                Salt Quench Media \
          2.12 \
  B5.3 \
          3.14 Analysis and \
                                   Every six months. Every six months. Every six months. \
                Contaminants \
\
                Oil Quench Media \
          2.12 \
  B5.4          Water content, suspended \
          3.14 \
                solids, viscosity, total acid, Every six months. Every six months. Every six months. \
                and flash point \
                Rust Preventive - \
                Soluble Oil \
  B5.5    2.13 \
                Concentration      2x/week         2x/week        2x/week \
\
                Cleaning Solution \
\
                Concentration of cleaner Daily     Daily          Daily \
  B5.6    2.11 \
                Temperature of solution \
                (required if temperature is Each                  Each shift. \
                                        shift     Each shift. \
                specified to be above \
                ambient temperature). \
\
                            . \
                                                                                                       -77- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
       Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                      AIAG \
\
      PROCESS TABLE C - ALUMINUM HEAT TREATING \
\
                                 PROCESS TABLE C - Aluminum Heat Treating \
\
      All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
      The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, \
      the auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
      Continuous furnace frequencies for item numbers C4.1 are per lot (work order) or as specified, whichever is more frequent. \
\
      OK - Complies to requirement \
      NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
      NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
               Related \
       Item #   HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
              Question # \
        1.0                              PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                       OK / NOK / NA \
\
                        Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective atmosphere \
        C1.1     3.1 \
                        monitoring unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices. \
                        Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at \
        C1.2     2.16   a minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM; EN, JIS) or approved equivalent \
                        standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
        C1.3     3.2    Furnace weigh scales shall be verified quarterly and calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
                        Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer solutions shall be verified \
        C1.4     3.2 \
                        prior to use with distilled water. \
\
        2.0                                               PYROMETRY                                    OK / NOK / NA \
\
                 3.2 \
        C2.1                                                                Section P3.1. \
                 3.3    Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to \
                 3.2 \
        C2.2 \
                 3.3    Calibration of Instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
                 3.2 \
        C2.3            System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall \
                 3.3    conform to Section P3.3 \
\
                        Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) frequency shall be quarterly and after major rebuild per \
                        Section P3.4. \
\
                        Temperature Uniformity tolerance for solution and aging furnaces shall be +/- 5\'b0\uc0\u8451  (+/- 10\'baF). \
                                                              furnaces shall be +/- 15\'b0\uc0\u8451  (+/- 25\'b0F). \
        C2.4     3.4    Temperature Uniformity tolerance for annealing \
                        Minimum and maximum temperature of the operating range shall be tested. \
                        Exception: If the operating range of the Qualified Work Zone is equal to or less than 85\uc0\u8451  (155\'baF) \
                        then only one temperature is required to be tested. The test temperature shall be within the \
                        operating range of the Qualified Work Zone. \
                        For Solution Treating and Aging: \
                        Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 5\'b0\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 10\'b0F) of the set point as \
                                                                             controlled with soak times \
       C2.5      3.5    evidenced by recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be \
                        starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                        For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
-78- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                          CQI-9 \
\
                                                 Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                           Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
        Related \
Item # HTSA                               Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
\
 2.0                                          PYROMETRY                                 OK / NOK / NA \
\
                For Annealing Furnaces: \
                Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 10\'b0\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'baF) of the set point as \
                evidenced by recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times \
C2.6     3.5 \
                starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
               Non-contact thermometry devices used for temperature monitoring (e.g. infrared pyrometer, \
 C2.7     3.2   thermal imaging camera) shall be calibrated annually at a minimum in the temperature range to be \
                used utilizing a blackbody device or per the manufacturer's recommended procedure. \
. ..                                               REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                  PROCESS MONITORING \
 3.0                                                                                    OK / NOK / NA \
                      PARAMETERS         Batch (Chamber) Furnace    Continuous Furnace \
\
                                        Continuous recording with alarm Continuous recording with alarm \
                                        system set per limits in C2.5 system set per limits in C2.5 \
                                        and C2.6. In absence of alarm and C2.6. In absence of alarm \
          1.4   Monitor primary temperature system, sign-off every 2 hours system, sign-off every 2 hours \
 C3.1 \
         2.14   control instrument(s). and at the end of the cycle, or and at the end of the cycle, or \
                                        each cycle for processes under each cycle for processes under \
                                        2 hours satisfies this 2 hours satisfies this \
                                        requirement             requirement. \
\
                                                                Sign-off twice/shift and after \
                                                                any change in the belt speed. \
          1.4                                                   Alarm        set per \
 C3.2          Monitor time in furnace, cycle Each batch or furnace load. systems (if \
         2.14 time, or belt speed.                              acceptable limits) or continuous \
                                                                recording satisfy this \
                                                                requirement. \
\
                                                                Sign-off twice/shift and after \
                                                                any change in loading rate. \
          1.4   Monitor load size, fixturing, or                Alarm systems (if set per \
 C3.3                                       batch furnace \
          2.7 loading rate as applicable. Each   or      load. acceptable limits) or continuous \
                                                                recording satisfy this \
                                                                requirement. \
                Quench Media Process \
                Parameters \
                                        Continuous recording with alarm Continuous recording with alarm \
                                        system set per acceptable system set per acceptable \
                                        limits. In absence of alarm limits. In absence of alarm \
                                        system, sign-off every 2 hours system, sign-off every 2 hours \
                Temperature \
                                        and at the end of the cycle, or and at the end of the cycle, or \
                                        each cycle for processes under each cycle for processes under \
                                        2 hours satisfies this 2 hours satisfies this \
                                        requirement             requirement. \
\
                                        Media Flow Rate and Pressure shall be monitored with alarm \
                                        system set per acceptable limits. In absence of alarm system, \
          1.4 \
 C3.4                                   sign-off every 2 hours and at the end of the cycle, or each cycle \
         2.12   Quench Media - Sprayed \
                                        for processes under 2 hours satisfies this requirement. Nozzle \
                                        pattern (number and direction) are to be defined, verified, and \
                                        logged. \
                                        Media Flow Rate shall be monitored with alarm system set per \
                                        acceptable limits. In absence of alarm system, sign-off every 2 \
                Quench Media - Forced Air hours and at the end of the cycle, or each cycle for processes \
                                        under 2 hours satisfies this requirement. Distribution pattern is to \
                                        be defined, verified, and logged. \
\
                Quench Media - Submerged Continuous monitor of level with alarm or daily verification. \
\
                                        Monitor the agitation during the quenching operation with alarm \
                Agitation               systems set at acceptable limits. \
\
                                                                                                  -79- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                      AIAG \
\
              Related \
      Item #   HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
                                                              REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                         PROCESS MONITORING \
        3.0                                                                                           OK / NOK / NA \
                              PARAMETERS \
                                                   Batch (Chamber) Furnace      Continuous Furnace \
\
                       Quench Delay Time - \
                       Quench delay time shall be \
                       based on the time that the \
                       furnace door starts to open to \
                                                                            Each basket/coil strip for \
                       the time the load is: \
                                                                                 type or roller hearth \
                 1.4           bottom of the                               pusher \
       C3.5            (a) at the         quench      batch or              continuous furnaces. Not \
                2.12 |tank for immersion quench, Each        furnace load. \
                                                                            applicable for furnaces where \
                       (b) until Quench chamber door \
                                                                            parts free fall into the quench. \
                       is closed and forced air is \
                       turned on for forced air quench, \
                       (c) until quench spray is applied \
                       to part(s), for spray quench. \
\
                                                              REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                         IN-PROCESSIFINAL TEST \
        4.0                                                                                           OK / NOK / NA \
                              PARAMETERS           Batch (Chamber) Furnace      Continuous Furnace \
\
        .                                        For hardness testing, each For hardness testing, every 4 \
                                                 batch or furnace load.     hours. \
                       Hardness, tensile test, or other For other destructive testing For other destructive testing \
                 1.4 \
       C4.1            destructive \
                2.15            test per customer methods, daily per furnace methods, daily per furnace \
                       specification (when specified). unless specified by Customer to unless specified by Customer to \
                                                 be checked with greater   be checked with greater \
                                                 frequency, e.g. each batch. frequency, e.g. each batch. \
\
                                                              REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                       QUENCHANT AND SOLUTION \
       5.0 \
                           TEST PARAMETERS                                                            OK / NOK/ NA \
                                                   Batch (Chamber) Furnace      Continuous Furnace \
\
                       Polymer Quench Media \
\
                       Concentration             Daily                      Daily \
                2.12 \
       C5.1     3.14                             Every six months (complete Every six months (complete \
                                                 replacement of the quench replacement of the quench \
                       Cooling Curve Analysis    media and cleaning of the media and cleaning of the \
                                                 quench tank within six months quench tank within six months \
                                                 satisfies this requirement). satisfies this requirement). \
                       Water Quench Media . \
\
                                                 Every six months (complete Every six months (complete \
                2.12 \
       C5.2 \
                3.14                             replacement of the quench replacement of the quench \
                       Suspended solids          media and cleaning of the media and cleaning of the \
                                                 quench tank within six months quench tank within six months \
                                                 satisfies this requirement). satisfies this requirement). \
\
                       Cleaning Solution \
\
                       Concentration of cleaner Daily                       Daily \
       C5.3     2.11 \
                       Temperature of solution \
                       (required if temperature is \
                                                 Each shift                 Each shift \
                       specified to be above ambient \
                       temperature). \
\
-80- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                        CQI-9 \
                                                Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
PROCESS TABLE D - INDUCTION HEAT TREATING \
\
                        PROCESS TABLE D - Induction Heat Treating \
\
 All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
 The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection, testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, \
 the auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
 OK - Complies to requirement \
 NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #') \
 NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
         Related \
 Item #   HTSA                            Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
   1.0                         PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                OK I NOK / NA \
\
                 Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually \
  D1.1    2.16   at a minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent \
                standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
\
  D1.2    2.16 Files for testing hardness shall be verified per the Customer requirement. \
                Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer solutions shall be \
  D1.3     3.2 \
                verified prior to use with distilled water. \
   2.0                                        PYROMETRY                               OK / NOK / NA \
           3.2 \
  D2.1           Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
           3.3 \
           3.2 \
  D2.2          Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
           3.3 \
\
                Non-contact thermometry devices used for temperature monitoring (e.g. infrared pyrometer, \
  D2.3     3.2 thermal imaging camera) shall be calibrated annually at a minimum in the temperature range to \
                be used utilizing a blackbody device or per the manufacturer's recommended procedure. \
\
                      PROCESS MONITORING \
   3.0                                                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY        OK / NOK / NA \
                          PARAMETERS \
\
       All process parameters shall be checked at the beginning of every shift, tool change, or any equipment repair. \
              In absence of process parameter alarms, also check process parameters at end of shift or lot \
                                   (whichever is the greater frequency). \
\
           1.4                                 Check cycle time at start of production, every 8 \
  D3.1    2.14 Monitor cycle time.             hours, \
                                                    and after any process change. \
\
                                               An energy monitor or signature monitor is required \
           1.4 \
                                               and shall be equipped with aiarms set at acceptable \
  D3.2    2.14 Monitor energy/power. \
                                               limits. This requirement applies to each power supply \
          3.16 \
                                               (not per coil). \
\
                Monitor part temperature (when \
                specified).                    Check at start of production, every 4 hours, and after \
           1.4                                 any process change. \
  D3.3 \
          3.12 Note: This does not replace the 100% of parts monitored and alarmed set to limits \
                requirement for energy or signature specified in the control plan satisfies this requirement. \
                monitors. \
\
                                                                                               -81- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                     AIAG \
\
              Related \
      Item #   HTSA                                Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
\
        3.0                  PROCESS MONITORING                  REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY                      NA \
                                  PARAMETERS                                                         OK / NOK / \
\
             All process parameters shall be checked at the beginning of every shift, tool change, or any equipment repair. \
                    In absence of process parameter alarms, also check process parameters at end of shift or lot \
                                           (whichever is the greater frequency). \
                                                         Alarm system for high and low temperature is \
                       Quench Temperature \
                                                         required. \
                       Quench Media Level                Continuous monitor with alarm or daily verification. \
                 1.4 \
       D3.4                                              Alarm system for quench pressure and flow rate for \
                2.12                                     high and low limits is required. \
\
                       Quench Pressure and Flow \
                                                         In the absence of an alarm, the quench pressure and \
                                                         flow shall be checked at start of production run and \
                                                         every 8 hours. \
                       Temper Delay Time - \
                 1.4   The maximum delay time between \
       D3.5 \
                2.12   quenching and tempering shall be Each batch. \
                       specified on the control plan and \
                       monitored. \
\
        4.0                  IN-PROCESS/FINAL TEST \
                                  PARAMETERS                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY (PER COIL)      OK / NOK / NA \
\
                                                         1 part at start of production run, end of production \
                 1.4.                                    run, and every 4 hours minimum, and 1 part pre- and \
       D4.1 \
                2.15   Induction pattern                 1 part post- tool change, equipment repair, station \
                                                         alarm (shutdown greater than 4 hours, malfunction, \
                                                         etc.). \
\
                                                         1 part at start of production run, end of production \
                1.4                                      run, and 1 part per 8 hours minimum, and 1 part pre- \
       D4.2 \
                2.15   Total or Effective Case depth     and 1 part post- tool change, equipment repair, \
                                                         station alarm (shutdown greater than 4 hours, \
                                                         malfunction, etc.). \
\
                                                         1 part at start of production run, end of production \
                1.4                                      run, and every 4 hours minimum, and 1 part pre- and \
       D4.3            Surface hardness \
                2.15                                     1 part post- tool change, equipment repair, station \
                                                         alarm (shutdown greater than 4 hours, malfunction, \
                                                         etc.). \
\
                                                         1 part at start of production run, end of production \
                      .                                  run, and every 8 hours minimum, and 1 part pre- and \
                1.4 \
       D4.4 \
                2.15   Core hardness (when specified)    1 part post- tool change, equipment repair, station \
                                                         alarm (shutdown greater than 4 hours, malfunction, \
                                                         etc.). \
\
                       Microstructure shall be checked at a low 1 part at start of production run, end of production \
                1.4    magnification of 100X and a high run, and 1 part per 8 hours minimum, and 1 part pre- \
       D4.5                              or above. \
                2.15   magnification of 400X             and 1 part post- tool change, equipment repair, \
                       Microstructure visual references shall be station alarm (shutdown greater than 4 hours, \
                       available.                        malfunction, etc.). \
\
-82- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                     CQI-9 \
                                              Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                       Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
       Related \
Item # HTSA                             Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
                QUENCHANT AND SOLUTION TEST \
 5.0                                                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY        OK / NOK / NA \
                        PARAMETERS \
\
               Polymer Quench Media \
\
         2.12 Concentration                  Daily \
 D5.1 \
         3.14 \
                                             Every six months (complete replacement of the \
               Cooling Curve Analysis        quench media and cleaning of the quench tank within \
                                             six months satisfies this requirement). \
\
               Water Quench Media \
         2.12 \
 D5.2                                        Every six months (complete replacement of the \
         3.14 \
               Suspended solids              quench media and cleaning of the quench tank within \
                                             six months satisfies this requirement). \
\
               Brine or Caustic Quench Media \
\
               Concentration and/or Specific Gravity Daily \
         2.12 \
 D5.3 \
         3.14 \
                                             Every six months (complete replacement of the \
               Suspended solids              quench media and cleaning of the quench tank within \
                                             six months satisfies this requirement). \
\
               Rust Preventive - Soluble Oil \
 D5.4    2.13 \
               Concentration                 2x/week \
\
               Cleaning Solution \
\
               Concentration of cleaner      Daily \
 D5.5    2.11 \
               Temperature of solution (required if \
               temperature is specified to be above Each shift. \
               ambient temperature). \
\
                                                                                             -83- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                         AIAG \
\
     PROCESS TABLE E - ANNEALING / NORMALIZING / STRESS-RELIEVING \
\
                      PROCESS TABLE E - Annealing / Normalizing / Stress-Relieving \
\
     All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
     The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When \
                                                                                             performing the job audit, the \
     auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
     Continuous furnace frequencies for item numbers E4.2 and E4.3 are per lot (work order) or as specified, whichever is more \
     frequent. \
\
     OK - Complies to requirement \
     NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
     NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
               Related \
      Item #    HTSA                                   Category/Process Steps \
              Question # \
        1.0                               PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                         OK /NOK / NA \
\
                 3.1    Recording instruments are required for temperature controling devices and \
       E1.1                                                                          protective atmosphere \
                 3.7    monitoring unit; e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices. \
                        A program for furnace, generator, and oxygen probe burnout is required (applies to carbon \
       E1.2      1.18                                                                             bearing \
                        atmospheres). \
       E1.3      3.2    Furnace weigh scales shall be verified quarterly and calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
                        Dew pointers, gas analyzers, spectrometers, and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock \
       E1.4      3.2    analysis), used to verify carbon potential in furnaces, shall be calibrated \
                                                                                  annually at a minimum. This \
                        is applicable when used in controlling carbon-bearing atmospheres. \
                        Verification of spectrometers and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil analysis) shall \
       E1.5      3.2                                                                                   be \
                        performed daily or prior to use. \
                        Verification of gas analyzers with zero gas and span gas when used as the back-up verification shall \
       E1.6      3.2    be performed weekly at a minimum. When used for primary control \
                                                                              of the carbon-bearing \
                        atmospheres, verification shall be daily. \
\
                        Atmosphere controllers shall be calibrated quarterly (single-point or multi-point \
       E1.7      3.2                                                                   calibration). \
                        A six month calibration interval is allowed if multi-point calibration is utilized. \
\
                 2.16   Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at \
       E1.8             a \
                 3.2      minimum, per the applicable national standard.(e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent \
                        standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
\
       E1.9      3.2    Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer solutions shall be verified \
                        prior to use with distilled water. \
\
        2.0                                                PYROMETRY                                      OK \
                                                                                                             I NOK / NA \
                 3.2 \
       E2.1             Thermocouples and \
                 3.3                     calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. " \
                 3.2 \
       E2.2             Calibration of \
                 3.3                instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
                 3.2    System \
       E2.3                    Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall conform \
                 3.3    to Section P3.3. \
\
-84- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                       CQI-9 \
                                               Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
        Related \
 Item # HTSA                             Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
\
  2.0                                        PYROMETRY                                OK / NOK / NA \
\
                Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per \
                Section P3.4. \
\
 E2.4     3.4   Temperature uniformity tolerance for furnaces operating at or above 680\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1250\'b0F) shall be +/- \
                15\'b0C (or +/- 25\'b0F). \
                Temperature uniformity tolerance for furnaces operating below 680\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1250\'b0F) shall be +/- 10\u8451  (or \
                +/- 20\'b0F). \
\
                For processes at or above 680\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1250\'b0F): \
                Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'baF) of the set point as \
                evidenced by recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times \
  E2.5    3.5 \
 ... .         starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
  .. \
                For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
                For processes below 680\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1250\'b0F): \
                Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 5\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 10\'baF) of the set point as evidenced \
                by continuous recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times \
  E2.6    3.5 \
               starting at the lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
                                                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                PROCESS MONITORING \
  3.0                                Batch (Chamber)                     Atmosphere   OK /. NOK / NA \
                    PARAMETERS                       Continuous Furnace \
                                        Furnace                          Generation \
\
                                   Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                   with alarm system set with alarm system set Generators shall be \
                                   per limits in E2.5 and per limits in E2.5 and continuously \
                                   E2.6 In absence of E2.6: In absence of monitored and \
                Monitor primary    alarm system, sign-off alarm system, sign-off recorded. Sign-off \
          1.4 \
  E3.1          temperature control every 2 hours and at every 2 hours and at required for each shift \
         2.14 \
                instrument(s).     the end of the cycle, or the end of the cycle, or for generators. An \
                                   each cycle for   each cycle for   alarm system will \
                                   processes under 2 processes under 2 satisfy the sign-off \
                                   hours satisfies this hours satisfies this .: requirement \
                                   requirement.     requirement. \
                                                                     Generators shall be \
                                                                     continuously \
                                                                     monitored and \
                                                                     recorded. Other \
          1.4                                                        systems, such as \
                Monitor generator \
  E3.2    2.14                                                       nitrogen-methanol \
                atmospheres. \
          3.7                                                        systems, may either \
                                                                     be continuously \
                                                                     monitored and \
                                                                     alarmed, or sign-off \
                                                                     every 2 hours. \
\
                                                                                              -85- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                     AIAG \
\
               Related \
       Item # HTSA                                  Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
\
                                                           REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                       PROCESS MONITORING \
        3.0                                                                                                    NA \
                           PARAMETERS          Batch (Chamber)                         Atmosphere    OK / NOK / \
                                                                Continuous Furnace \
                                                  Furnace                              Generation \
\
                                             Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                             with alarms set per with alarms set per \
                                             acceptable limits. In acceptable limits. In \
                                             absence of alarm   absence of alarm \
                 1.4 \
       E3.3     2.14   Monitor primary furnace system, sign-off every system, sign-off every \
                                             2 hours and at the end 2 hours and at the end \
                3.7    atmosphere control(s). \
                                            of the cycle, or each of the cycle, or each \
                                             cycle for processes cycle for processes \
                                            under 2 hours satisfies under 2 hours satisfies \
                                            this requirement.   this requirement. \
\
                 1.4 \
                2.14   Verify primary atmosphere \
       E3.4            control method by back-up Daily          Daily               Daily \
                 3.7 \
                       method: \
                 3.8 \
                                                                Sign-off twice/shift and \
                                                                after any change in the \
                 1.4   Monitor time in furnace, Each batch or   belt speed. Alarm \
       E3.5 \
                2.14   cycle time, or belt speed. furnace load. systems (if set per \
                                                                acceptable limits) or \
                                                                continuous recording \
                                                                satisfy this requirement. \
                       Monitor load size, fixturing,            Sign-off twice/shift and \
                 1.4                        Each batch or \
       E3.6            or      rate as \
                2.7      loading            furnace load.       after any change in \
                       applicable.                             loading rate. . \
\
                       Monitor cooling rate (start \
                                            Each batch or furnace. \
       E3.7     2.14   temp, end temp, "F/min),                 Once per \
                                            load                       shift \
                       as applicable \
\
                                                           REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                         IN-PROCESS/FINAL \
        4.0 \
                         TEST.PARAMETERS.     Batch (Chamber)   Continuous Furnace     Atmosphere    OK / NOK / NA \
                                                  Furnace                              Generation \
                       Microstructure shall be \
                       checked at a low     Daily per furnace Daily per furnace \
                       magnification of 100X and unless specified by unless specified by \
                1.4    a high magnification of Customer to be Customer to be \
       E4.1 \
                2.15   400X or above (when checked with greater checked with greater \
                       specified). Microstructure frequency, e.g. each frequency, e.g. each \
                       visual references shall be batch.       batch. \
                       available. \
                1.4                         Each batch or \
       E4.2            Surface hardness (when                  Each lot or \
                2.15   specified).          furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
\
                1.4    Core hardness (when Each batch or \
       E4.3                                                    Each lot or \
                2.15   specified).          furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
\
-86- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                  CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
       Related \
 Item # HTSA                          Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
                                             REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                 SOLUTION TEST \
  5.0                             Batch (Chamber)                   Atmosphere   OK / NOK / NA \
                  PARAMETERS                     Continuous Furnace \
                                     Furnace                         Generation \
               Rust Preventive - \
               Soluble Oil \
 E5.1    2.13 \
              Concentration      2x/week         2x/week \
\
               Cleaning Solution \
\
              Concentration of cleaner Daily     Daily \
\
 E5.2    2.11 \
               Temperature of solution \
              (required if temperature is Each \
                                    shift.       Each shift. \
               specified to be above \
               ambient temperature). \
\
                                                                                         -87- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                       AIAG \
\
     PROCESS TABLE F - LOW PRESSURE PROCESSING (CARBURIZING / \
      CARBONITRIDING / NEUTRAL HARDENING) \
\
                                PROCESS TABLE F - Low Pressure Processing \
                              (Carburizing / Carbonitriding / Neutral Hardening) \
\
      All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
      The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, \
      the auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
      OK - Complies to requirement \
      NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
      NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
               Related \
       Item #   HTSA                                Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
        1.0                             PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                        OK / NOK / NA \
\
       F1.1      3.1    All gaseous quench systems shall have pressure indicators and fan operation indicators. \
\
                        Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective \
                 3.1 \
       F1.2 \
                3.17    atmosphere monitoring unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling \
                        devices. \
                        Flow controllers for atmosphere delivery shall be calibrated annually or verified annually against a \
                        calibrated master. \
       F1.3      3.2 \
                        The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum annually per applicable ASTM, \
                        NIST, ISO, or other national equivalent standard. \
\
       F1.4      3.2    Verification of spectrometers and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil analysis) shall \
                        be performed daily or prior to use. \
                        Vacuum monitoring devices shall be calibrated annually or verified annually against a calibrated \
                        master. \
       F1.5      3.2 \
                        The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum annually per applicable ASTM, \
                        NIST, ISO, or other national equivalent standard. \
\
                        Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually \
       F1.6     2.16    at a minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent \
                        standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
       F1.7     2.16    Files for testing hardness shall be verified per the Customer requirement. \
\
                        Refractometers typically used to check polymer quenchants and washer solutions shall be verified \
       F1.8      3.2 \
                        prior to use with distilled water. \
        2.0                                              PYROMETRY                                     OK / NOK / NA \
                 3.2 \
       F2.1             Thermocouples \
                 3.3                and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
                 3.2 \
       F2.2             Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
                 3.3 \
       F2.3      3.2    System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall \
                 3.3    conform to Section P3.3. \
\
-88- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                       CQI-9 \
                                               Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                        Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
        Related \
 Item # HTSA                             Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
   2.0                                       PYROMETRY                               OK / NOK / NA \
\
                Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per \
                Section P3.4. \
  F2.4    3.4 \
                Temperature uniformity tolerance for hardening and tempering furnaces shall be +/- 10\uc0\u8451  or +/- \
                20\'b0F. \
                Temperature(s) for austentizing processes shall be controlled within +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'baF) of the \
  F2.5    3.5 \
                set point as evidenced by recording instruments. \
\
                Temperature(s) for tempering and precipitation hardening processes shall be controlled within +/- \
  F2.6    3.5 \
                5\'b0C (or +/- 10\'b0F) of the set point as evidenced by recording instruments. \
\
  3.0             PROCESS MONITORING PARAMETERS        REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY      OK / NOK / NA \
\
                                                  Continuous recording with alarm system set per \
                                                  limits in F2,5. In absence of alarm system, sign- \
          1.4 \
  F3.1          Monitor primary temperature control off every 2 hours and at the end of the cycle, or \
          2.14 instrument(s). \
                                                  each cycle for processes under 2 hours satisfies \
                                                  this requirement. \
                                                  Continuous recording with alarm system. In \
                                                  absence of alarm system, sign-off every 2 hours \
          1.4   Monitor pressure and flow in the carburizing/ \
  F3.2                                            and at the end of the cycle, or each cycle for \
          2.14 carbonitriding process. \
                                                  processes under 2 hours satisfies this \
                                                  requirement. \
          1.4 \
          2.14 \
  F3.3          Verify primary atmosphere control method by Daily, per qualified work zone (chamber). \
          3.7   back-up method. \
          3.8 \
          1.2                                     Prior to production (during APQP phase), the \
  F3.4          Calculate                         surface area of the parts shall be calculated and \
          2.7          part surface area. \
                                                  documented for each load configuration. \
\
                Quench Media Process Parameters - Liquid \
\
                Quench Delay Time                 Each batch or furnace load. \
                                                  Continuous recording with sign-off every 2 hours \
                                                  and at the end of the cycle, or each cycle for \
                Temperature                       processes under 2 hours. Alarm systems (if set \
          1.4                                     per acceptable limits) satisfy the sign-off \
  F3.5 \
          2.12                                    requirement \'b7 \
\
                Quench Level                      Daily check or alarm system is required. \
                                                  Daily check or alarm system is required. \
\
                Agitation                         Acceptable methods for checking agitation are \
                                                  using flow sensors, current sensors, or pressure \
                                                  differential sensors. \
\
                                                                                              -89- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                    AIAG \
\
       3.0              PROCESS MONITORING PARAMETERS             REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY          OK / NOK / NA \
\
                      Quench Media Process Parameters - Gas \
\
                      Quench Delay Time                     Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                1.4 \
       F3.6 \
                2.12   Pressure in the quench cell          Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                       Fan speed or power                   Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
\
                       Cooling water temperature and flow rate Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                       Temper Delay Time - \
                1.4    The maximum \
       F3.7                       delay time between quenching   batch \
                2.12   and tempering shall be controlled per the Each or furnace load. \
                       control plan. \
\
       4.0                    IN-PROCESS/FINAL TEST               REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY          OK / NOK / NA \
                                   PARAMETERS \
\
                       Microstructure shall be checked at a low \
                1.4    magnification of 100X and a high magnification Daily per furnace (must rotate cells) or any time \
       \uc0\u8355 4.1 \
                2.15   of 400X or above. Microstructure visual one of the process parameters is out of \
                                                            specification. \
                      references shall be available. \
                1.4 \
       F4.2            Surface hardness                      Each batch or furnace load. \
                2.15 \
\
                1.4                                         Daily per furnace (must rotate cells) or any time \
       F4.3                                                                               of \
                2.15   Core hardness (when specified)       one of the process parameters is out \
                                                             specification. \
\
                1.4                                         Daily per furnace (must rotate cells) or any time \
       F4.4 \
                2.15   Case depth (when specified)          one of the process parameters is out of \
                                                            specification. \
                          QUENCHANT AND SOLUTION T\'c9ST \
        5.0                                                       REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY         OK / NOK / NA \
                                   PARAMETERS \
\
                       Polymer Quench Solution \
\
               2.12    Concentration                        Daily \
       F5.1 \
               3.14 \
                                                            Every six months (complete replacement of the \
                      Quenchability Check cooling curve, viscosity, \
                      or titration.                         quench media and cleaning of the quench tank \
                                                            within six months satisfies this requirement). \
\
                       Oil Quenching \
       F5.2    2.12 \
                      Water content, suspended solids, viscosity, \
                                                            Every six months. \
                      cooling curve, total acid, and flash point. \
\
                       Rust Preventative Solution - Soluble Oil \
       F5.3    2.13 \
                       Concentration                        2x/week \
\
                       Cleaning Solution \
         - \
                       Concentration                        Daily \
       F5.4    2.11 \
                       Temperature of solution (required if \
                      temperature is specified to be above ambient Each shift. \
                      temperature). \
\
-90- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                             CQI-9 \
                                                   Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                            . Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 PROCESS TABLE G - SINTER HARDENING \
\
                              PROCESS TABLE G - Sinter Hardening \
\
 All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
 The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, the \
 auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
 Continuous furnace frequencies for item numbers G4.2, G4.3, G4.4, and G4.5 are per lot (work order) or as specified, whichever is \
 more frequent. \
\
 OK - Complies to requirement \
 NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #') \
 NA .- Requirement not applicable \
\
         Related \
 Item #   HTSA                               Category/Process Steps \
        Question # \
   1.0                            PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                   OK / NOK / NA \
\
           3.1   Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective atmosphere \
  .G1.1 \
           3.7   monitoring unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices: \
\
  G1.2     3.1   Atmosphere flow meters/indicators are required. \
\
  G1.3     1.18 A program for furnace, generator, and oxygen probe burnout is required (applies to carbon bearing \
                 atmospheres). \
\
                                                             combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil \
  G1.4     3.2   Dew pointers, gas analyzers, spectrometers, and carbon IR \
                 analysis), used to verify carbon potential in furnaces, shall be calibrated annually at a minimum. \
..               Verification                  IR         analyzers          analysis) shall be \
  G1.5     3.2            of spectrometers and carbon combustion (shim stock/foil \
                 performed daily or prior to use. \
                 Verification of gas analyzers with zero gas and span gas when used as the back-up verification shall \
  G1.6     3.2   be performed weekly at a minimum. When used for primary control of the carbon-bearing \
                 atmospheres, verification shall be daily. \
                 Atmosphere controllers shall be calibrated quarterly (single-point or multi-point calibration). \
  G1.7     3.2 \
                 A six month calibration interval is allowed if multi-point calibration is utilized: \
\
                 Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at a \
  G1.8    2.16   minimum, per                                   JIS) approved equivalent standard, \
           3.2             the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, or \
                 and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
\
   2.0                                           PYROMETRY                                  OK / NOK / NA \
           3.2 \
  G2.1           Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
           3.3 \
           3.2 \
  G2.2           Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
           3.3 \
           3.2   System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall conform \
  G2.3 \
           3.3   to Section P3.3. \
                 Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per Section \
                 P3.4. \
  G2.4     3.4 \
                 Temperature uniformity tolerance for sinter hardening furnaces shall be +/- 15\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 25\'b0F). \
                 Temperature uniformity tolerance for tempering furnaces shall be +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 20\'b0F). \
\
                                                                                                     -91- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      . Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                         AIAG \
\
        2.0                                                 PYROMETRY                                       OK / NOK / NA \
\
                        For processes at or above 1000\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1830\'b0F): \
                        Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 20\'b0\uc0\u8451  (+/- 35\'b0F) of the set point as evidenced by \
                        recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times starting at the lower \
       G2.5      3.5 \
                        tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
                        For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
                        For processes less than 1000\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1830\'b0F); \
                        Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'b0F) of the set point as evidenced \
                                              Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times starting at the \
       G2.6      4.5    by recording instruments. \
                        lower tolerance limit (as defined above). \
\
         \uc0\u699               For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
                                                               REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                        PROCESS MONITORING \
        3.0                                                                                 Atmosphere      OK / NOK / NA \
                             PARAMETERS          Batch (Chamber)    Continuous Furnace \
                                                     Furnace                                 Generation \
\
                                               Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                               with alarm system set with alarm system set \
                                                                                        Generators shall be \
                                               per limits in G2.5 and per limits in G2.5 and \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                               G2.6. In absence of. G2.6. In absence of \
                 1.4    Monitor primary        alarm system, sign-off alarm system, sign-off and recorded. Sign-off \
        G3.1     1.6    temperature control    every 2 hours and at every 2 hours and at required for each shift \
                 2.14   instrument(s).         the end of the cycle or the end of the cycle or for generators. An \
                                                                                        alarm system will satisfy \
                                               each cycle for      each cycle for \
                                                                                        the sign-off \
                                               processes under 2   processes under 2 \
                                                                                        requirement. \
                                               hours satisfies this hours satisfies this . \
                                               requirement.        requirement. \
\
                                                                                        Generators shall be \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                                                                        and recorded. Other \
                 1.4 \
                 2.14                                                                   systems, such as \
       G3.2             Monitor generator                                               nitrogen-methanol \
                 3.7    atmospheres. \
                 3.11                                                                   systems, may either be \
                                                                                        continuously monitored \
                                                                                        and alarmed, or sign- \
                                                                                        off every 2 hours. \
\
                                               Continuous recording Continuous recording \
                                               with alarm system. In with alarm system. In \
                                               absence of alarm    absence of alarm \
                 1.4 \
                 1.6                           system, sign-off every system, sign-off every \
       G3.3             Monitor primary furnace 2 hours and at the end 2 hours and at the end \
                 2.14   atmosphere control(s). \
                 3.7                           of the cycle, or each of the cycle, or each \
                                               cycle for processes cycle for processes \
                                               under 2 hours satisfies under 2 hours satisfies \
                                               this requirement    this requirement. \
                 1.4 \
                 2.14   Verify primary atmosphere \
       G3.4             control method by back-up Daily \
                 3.7                                               Daily                Daily \
                        method. \
                 3.8 \
                                                                          twice/shift and \
                 1.4    Monitor time in furnace, Each batch or     Sign-off \
       G3.5 \
                 2.14   cycle time, or belt speed. furnace load.   after any change in the \
                                                                   belt speed. \
\
-92- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                            CQI-9 \
                                                  Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
        Related \
 Item # HTSA                                Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
                                                   REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                PROCESS MONITORING \
  3.0                                 Batch (Chamber)                        Atmosphere    OK / NOK / NA \
                    PARAMETERS                         Continuous Furnace \
                                          Furnace                            Generation \
                Monitor load size, fixturing,          Sign-off twice/shift and \
          1.4                        Each batch or \
 G3.6           or loading rate as                     after any change in \
          2.7                       furnace load. \
                applicable.                            loading rate. \
\
                Quench Delay Time - \
                Quench delay time shall be \
                based on the time that the \
                furnace door starts to \
          1.4                        Each batch or     Not applicable for belt \
 G3.7           open to the time the load is \
          2.12                      furnace load.      furnaces. \
                at the bottom of the \
                quench tank (oil) or the \
                start of the gas pressure \
                quenching (gas quench). \
\
                Quench Media Process \
                Parameters - Oil \
\
                                    One of the three \
                                    options is required. One of the three \
                                                       options is required. \
                                     (1) Record temperature \
                                     per batch or 2x per (1) Record temperature \
                                     shift, whichever is more 2x per shift, or after \
                Temperature of water \
                                     frequent.         any change. \
                exchange system for \
                quench chamber (does not \
                                     (2) Continuously record (2) Continuously record \
                apply to convection \
                                     temperature and sign- temperature and sign- \
                systems).                              off \
                                     off per batch or 2x per 2x per shift, or after \
          1.4 \
 G3.8                                shift, whichever is more any change. \
          2.12 \
                                     frequent. \
                                                       (3) Alarm system on \
                                     (3) Alarm system on temperature controller. \
                                     temperature controller. \
\
                                     Alarm system is   Alarm system is \
                                     required to ensure required to ensure \
                                     proper operation of the proper operation of the \
                                     fans.             fans. \
                 Agitation \
                (Fan/Blower Speed) \
                                     If fan speed is variable, If fan speed is variable, \
                                     then verify fan speed then verify fan speed \
                                     every 8 hours, or after every 8 hours, or after \
                                     any change.       any change. \
\
                Quench Media Process \
                Parameters - Gas \
\
                Pressure in quench \
                                     Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
           1.4 vestibule. \
 G3.9 \
          2.12 \
                Fan speed or power. Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
\
                Cooling. water temperature \
                                     Monitor each load. Alarm system is required. \
                 and flow rate. \
\
                                                                                                     -93- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020 :                                                   AIAG \
\
              Related \
      Item #   HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
            Question # \
\
                                                           REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                        IN-PROCESS/FINAL \
       4.0                                                                                            OK / NOK / NA \
                        TEST PARAMETERS       Batch (Chamber)   Continuous Furnace     Atmosphere \
                                                  Furnace                              Generation \
                      Microstructure shall be - \
                      checked at a low      Daily per furnace Daily per furnace \
                      magnification of 100X and |unless specified by unless specified by \
                1.4   a high magnification of Customer to be   Customer to be \
       G4.1 \
               2.15   400X or above.        checked with greater checked with greater \
                      Microstructure visual frequency, e.g. each frequency, e.g. each \
                      references shall.be   batch.             load. \
                      available. \
                1.4   Mechanical Testing (when Each batch or   Each lot or \
       G4.2 \
               2.15   specified).           furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
                1.4                         Each batch or      Each lot or \
       G4.3           Apparent hardness. \
               2.15                         furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
                1.4   Particle hardness (when Each batch or    Each lot or \
       G4.4 \
               2.14   specified).           furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
                1.4   Core hardness         Each batch or      Each lot or \
       G4.5                       (when \
               2.15   specified).           furnace load.      every 4 hours. \
\
-94- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                        CQI-9 \
                                                Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
AIAG                                                                          Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
PROCESS TABLE H - ION NITRIDING \
\
                              PROCESS TABLE H - lon Nitriding \
\
All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the job audit, \
the auditor shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
Please note that the corresponding process of Gas Nitriding is covered in Process Table "B" and Plasma lon Nitriding is \
covered in Process Table "H". \
\
OK - Complies to requirement \
NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #') \
NA - Requirement not applicable \
\
        Related \
 Item # HTSA                              Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
  1.0                          PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                 OK / NOK / NA \
                Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective \
          3.1 \
  H1.1          atmosphere monitoring                       other atmosphere controlling \
          3.7                    unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or \
                devices. \
  H1.2    1.18 Vessel is to be free of contamination that may affect the process. \
\
                Vacuum monitoring devices shall be calibrated annually or verified annually against a calibrated \
                master. \
 H1.3     3.2 \
                The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum annually per applicable ASTM, \
                NIST, ISO, or other national equivalent standard. \
                Gas ratio controllers for atmosphere delivery shall be calibrated annually or verified annually \
                against a calibrated master. Alternatively, using a Pre-mixed gas of Certified Composition \
          3.2   satisfies this requirement \
  H1.4 \
          3.11 \
                The master used for verification shall be calibrated at a minimum annually per applicable ASTM, \
                NIST, ISO, or other national equivalent standard. \
                Pre-Mixed Gases shall have a Certificate of Ratio of Gas Mixture and Gas Purity with each \
  H1.5    3.1 \
                shipment. \
                Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually \
  H1.6    2.16 at a minimum, per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent \
                standard, and verified per internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
\
 H1.7     2.16 Files for testing hardness, if used, shall be verified per the Customer requirement. \
          1.4   The vessel shall achieve a leak up rate of 90 microns Hg per hour or less and shall be verified \
  H1.8 \
          2.11 weekly. \
\
  2.0                                         PYROMETRY                               OK / NOK / NA \
\
  H2.1    3.2   Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to Section P3.1. \
\
 H2.2     3.2   Calibration of instrumentation shall conform to Section P3.2. \
\
                Protection Tubes for thermocouples in the vessels, if used, shall be visually checked for each \
 H2.3     3.2 \
                batch. \
\
                                                                                               -95- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
      Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                     AIAG \
\
              Related \
      Item #   HTSA                                Category/Process Steps \
             Question # \
        2.0                                             PYROMETRY                                    OK / NOK / NA \
\
                       Systems Accuracy Test (SAT) and Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) are not required. \
\
       H2.4     3.4    In lieu of SAT and TUS, temperature ranges shall be established during preproduction testing \
                       using multiple thermocouples representing the work zone and confirmed using a property survey \
                       and documented in the Control Plan for each part. \
                       Process temperature(s) shall be controlled with thermocouples in the load for each batch placed \
       H2.5     3.5    as practical to represent the extremes of the load (minimum and maximum temperatures) as \
                       evidenced by recording instruments. \
\
                       Non-contact thermometry devices used for temperature monitoring (e.g. infrared pyrometer, \
       H2.6     3.2    thermal imaging camera) shall be calibrated annually at a minimum in the temperature range to \
                       be used utilizing a blackbody device or per the manufacturer's recommended procedure. \
\
        3.0              PROCESS MONITORING PARAMETERS             REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY          OK / NOK / NA \
\
                 1.4   Vessel evacuation to 75 microns Hg or less is \
       H3.1                                                   Each \
                2.11   required prior to initiating the cycle.     batch. \
\
                                                              Continuous recording with alarm system set per \
                 1.4                                          limits per the control plan. In absence of alarm \
       H3.2 \
                2.14   Monitor temperature control instrument(s). system, sign-off every 2 hours or each batch \
                                                              for processes under 2 hours satisfies this \
                                                              requirement \
                                                              Continuous recording with alarm system set per \
                 1.4                                          limits per the control plan. In absence of alarm \
       H3.3     2.14   Monitor vessel vacuum and pressure control(s). system, sign-off every 2 hours or each batch \
                3.7                                           for processes under 2 hours satisfies this \
                                                              requirement. \
                 1.4 \
       H3.4                                                   Each \
                2.14   Verify Process Gas Mixture settings.        batch. \
                 1.4 \
       H3.5                                                   Each \
                2.14   Monitor time in furnace, cycle time.       batch. \
                1.4 \
       H3.6            Monitor                                Each \
                2.14         load size and fixturing as applicable. batch. \
\
-96- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                       Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
       Related \
Item # HTSA                           Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
--- \
 4.0            IN-PROCESS/FINAL TEST PARAMETERS    REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY    OK / NOK / NA \
\
               Microstructure shall be checked at a low \
         1.4   magnification of 100X and a high magnification \
 H4.1                                          Each batch. \
        2.15 of 400X or above. Microstructure visual \
               references shall be available. \
         1.4 \
 H4.2          Surface hardness                Each batch. \
         2.15 \
         1.4 \
 H4.3          Core hardness (when specified) Each batch. \
         2.15 \
         1.4 \
 H4.4          Case depth (when specified)     Each batch. \
         2.15 \
         1.4 \
 H4.5         White Layer/Compound Zone (when specified) Each batch. \
         2.15 \
\
 5.0               SOLUTION TEST PARAMETERS         REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY    OK / NOK / NA \
\
               Rust Preventive - Soluble Oil \
 H5.1    2.13 \
               Concentration                   2x/week \
\
               Cleaning Solution \
\
               Concentration of cleaner.       Daily \
 H5.2    2.11 \
\
               Temperature of solution (required if temperature Each shift. \
               is specified to be above ambient temperature). \
\
                                                                                         -97- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
        Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
       Fourth Edition, June 2020                                                                   AIAG \
\
      PROCESS TABLE I - HOT STAMPING \
\
                                                PROCESS TABLE I - Hot Stamping \
      "Hot Stamping" Is also known as dry contact press hardening, high strength metal sheet hardening, press hardening, or dle press \
      quenching. This process first austenitizes and then simultaneously quenches and forms a part. Quenching is achieved by direct contact with \
      a die that is internally cooled with a suitable medium. The dle is used in conjunction with a high tonnage press and relatively short heat treat \
      cycles are used. \
\
      All requirements given below are subordinate to customer specific requirements. \
\
       The Customer may have additional requirements, e.g. inspection testing, greater frequencies. When performing the Job audit, the auditor \
      shall verify heat treater is conforming to the Customer's requirements. \
\
       OK - Complies to requirement \
      NOK - Does not comply to requirement (Explain noncompliance in 'Related HTSA Question #) \
      NA - Requirement not applicable. \
\
                Related \
       Item #    HTSA                                         Category/Process Steps \
              Question # \
         1.0                                     PROCESS AND TEST EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS                                 OK/ NOK / NA \
        11.1      3.1    Recording instruments are required for temperature controlling devices and protective atmosphere monitoring \
                  .3.7   unit, e.g. dew point, oxygen probe, or other atmosphere controlling devices. \
\
        11.2      3.2    To avoid double layer loading, furnace loading device and control elements shall be verified and maintained per \
                         maintenance plan. \
\
        11.3      3.2    Dew pointers, gas analyzers, spectrometers, and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim stock/foil analysis), used \
                         to verify protective atmosphere in furnaces, shal be calibrated annually at a minimum. \
\
        11.4      3.2    Oxygen probe controllers shall be calibrated quarterly (single-point or multi-point calibration) .. \
                         A six month calibration interval is allowed if multi-point calibration is utilized. \
                         Verification of spectrometers and carbon IR combustion analyzers (shim'stock/foil analysis) shall be performed \
        11.5      3.2 \
                         daily or prior to use. \
                         Verification of gas analyzers with zero gas and span gas when used as the back-up verification shall be \
        11.6      3.2    performed weekly at a minimum. When used for primary control of the carbon-bearing atmospheres, verification \
                         shall be daily. \
                         Laboratory and Test equipment used for product and process testing shall be calibrated annually at a minimum, \
        11.7      2.16   per the applicable national standard (e.g. ASTM, EN, JIS) or approved equivalent standard, and verified per \
                         internal procedure if not specified in the applicable standard. \
         20                                                       PYROMETRY                                             OK / NOK / NA \
                  3.2 \
        12.1                                                                    Section P3.1. \
                  3.3    Thermocouples and calibration of thermocouples shall conform to \
                  3.2 \
        12.2             Calibration of               conform to Section P3.2. \
                  3.3               instrumentation shall \
                  3.2 \
        12.3             System Accuracy Test (SAT) for all control, monitoring, and recording thermocouples shall conform to Section \
                  3.3    P3.3. \
                         Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) shall be performed annually and after major rebuild per Section P3.4 \
        12.4      3.4 \
                         Temperature uniformity tolerance for hardening furnaces shall be +/- 15\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 25\'b0F). \
                         Process temperature(s) shall be controlled within +/- 10\uc0\u8451  (or +/- 15\'baF) of the set point as evidenced by \
                         recording instruments. Furnace temperature shall be controlled with soak times starting at the lower tolerance limit \
        12.5      3.5    (as defined above). \
\
                         For Continuous Furnaces, this requirement applies to the Qualified Work Zone. \
\
                         Non-contact thermometry devices used for temperature monitoring (e.g. infrared pyrometer, thermal imaging \
        12.6      3.2    camera) shall be calibrated annually at a minimum in the temperature range to be used utilizing a blackbody \
                         device or per the manufacturer's recommended procedure. \
\
-98- \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                                     CQI-9 \
\
                                                       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                                         Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
        Related \
 Item#   HTSA                                    Category/Process Steps \
       Question # \
                                                        REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                 PROCESS MONITORING                                                                  OK / NOK / NA \
  3.0 \
                     PARAMETERS       BOX Type Furnace BOX Type Furnace Continuous      Atmosphere \
                                      (Single-Chamber) (Multi-Chamber)     Furnace       Generation \
                                                      For each chamber,               Generators shall be \
                                     Continuous                       Continuous \
                                                      continuous recording            continuously \
                                     recording with alarm             recording with \
                                                      with alarm system set           monitored and \
                                     system set per limits            alarm system set \
                                                      per limits in 12.5.             recorded. Sign-off \
                 Monitor primary     in 12.5.                         per limits in 12.5. required each \
           1.4                                        In absence of alarm                    for \
  13.1           temperature control In absence of alarm              In absence of alarm \
          2.14                                        system, sign-off                shift for \
                 instrument(s).      system, sign-off every 2 hours for system, sign-off generators. An \
                                     every 2 hours                    every 2 hours \
                                                      each chamber                    alarm system will \
                                     satisfies this                   satisfies this \
                                                      satisfies this                  satisfy the sign-off \
                                     requirement                      requirement \
                                                      requirement                     requirement. \
\
                                                                                      Dried air or \
                                                                                      nitrogen-systems \
           1.4                                                                        may either be \
                 Monitor atmosphere                                                   continuously \
  13.2    2.14 \
                 generation as applicable. \
           3.7                                                                        monitored and \
                                                                                      alarmed, or sign- \
                                                                                      off every 2 hours. \
\
                                                      For each chamber, \
                                     Continuous                       Continuous \
                                                      continuous recording \
                                     recording with alarm             recording with \
                                                      with alarm system. \
                                     system.                          alarm system. \
           1.4   Monitor primary furnace              In absence of alarm \
                                     In absence of alarm              In absence of alarm \
  13.3    2.14   atmosphere control(s), as            system, sign-off \
                                     system, sign-off       hours for system, sign-off \
           3.7   applicable                           every 2 \
                                     every 2 hours                    every 2 hours \
                                                      each chamber \
                                     satisfies this                    satisfies this \
                                                      satisfies this \
                                     requirement.                     requirement. \
                                                      requirement \
\
                                                      For each chamber, \
                                      System monitoring of             System monitoring \
                                                      system monitoring of of \
                                     time in furnace (ex.               time in furnace \
                                                      time in furnace (ex. \
           1.4                        Robot, PLC, etc.).               (ex. Roller speed). \
  13.4           Monitor time in furnace.             Robot, PLC, etc.). \
          2.14                        Alarm for times                  Alarm for times \
                                                      Alarm for times \
                                      outside of process               outside of process \
                                                      outside of process \
                                     window.                          window. \
                                                      window. \
\
                                      System monitoring of applicable press cycle parameters. \
                 Press cycle parameter \
  13.5                                There shall be an alarm for conditions outside of process \
                 (e.g. dwell time, tonnage) \
                                      window. \
\
                 Quench Process \
                 Parameters \
\
                                      System to monitor part temperature in the die and immediately \
           1.4   Monitor part temperature \
  13.6                                prior to quenching (infrared, thermal camera, or other suitable \
          2.12   in die. \
                                      non-contact thermometry device). \
\
           1.4   Temperature of die cooling Continuous recording. \
  13.7 \
          2.12   system.              Alarm for temperature control systems are required. \
\
           1.4   Cooling system flow Monitoring of die cooling system flow. \
  13.8 \
          2.12   control.             Alarm for flow control systems are required. \
\
           1.4   Supplemental Cooling Continuous recording. \
  13.9 \
          2.12   Water - Temperature Alarm for temperature control systems are required. \
\
           1.4   Supplemental Cooling Monitoring of quenchant system flow. \
  13.10 \
          2.12   Water - Flow Rate    Alarm for flow control systems are required. \
\
                                                                                                               -99- \
<<<\page \
\
       CQI-9 \
       Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
       Fourth Edition; June 2020                                                           AIAG \
\
               Related \
       Item #   HTSA                                    Category/Process Steps \
              Question # \
                                                                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                         IN-PROCESSI FINAL \
         4.0 \
                         TEST PARAMETERS     BOX Type Furnace BOX Type Furnace   Continuous      Atmosphere   OK / NOK / NA \
                                             (Single-Chamber) (Multi-Chamber)      Furnace       Generation \
\
                       Microstructure shall be               Daily per furnace \
                       checked at a low                      (chamber). May \
                 1.4 \
        14.1                                                              but \
                2.15   magnification of 100X and Daily per furnace. rotate chambers Daily per furnace. \
                       a high magnification of               minimum each \
                       400X or above.                        chamber per week. \
\
                                                             Daily per furnace \
                 1.4                                         (chamber). May \
        14.2           Decarburization (for bare \
                2.15   steel only).          Daily per furnace. rotate chambers but Daily per furnace. \
                                                             minimum each \
                                                             chamber per week. \
\
                                                             Daily per furnace \
                 1.4   Coating Thickness, Layer              (chamber). May \
        14.3 \
                2.15   Evaluation (for coated Daily per furnace. rotate chambers but Daily per furnace. \
                       material).                            minimum each \
                                                             chamber per week. \
\
                                                             At start up (per \
                                                             cavity) and every 4 \
                                            At start up (per hours minimum (per At start up (per \
                 1.4                              and     4                            every 4 \
        14.4           Hardness             cavity) every    cavity). May rotate cavity) and \
                2.15                        hours minimum (per chambers but   hours minimum (per \
                                             cavity).        minimum each     cavity). \
                                                             chamber every 48 \
                                                             hours. \
\
                 1.4   Mechanical (Tensile, Yield, \
        14.5            % Elongation) - when As required by As required by . As required by \
                2.15                        Customer.        Customer.        Customer. \
                       specified. \
\
                                                                REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                        PRESS AND QUENCH \
         5.9 \
                         TEST PARAMETERS     BOX Type Furnace BOX Type Furnace   Continuous      Atmosphere OK / NOK / NA \
                                             (Single-Chamber) (Multi-Chamber)      Furnace       Generation \
\
                       Press and Quenching \
\
                2.15   Die - Segment Wear \
        15.1           managed to maintain \
                3.14                        Per maintenance and equipment plan. \
                       desired properties. \
\
                       Cooling System check. \
                       Cooling media \
                       contamination. \
                2.15                        Per maintenance and equipment plan (tubes, channels, filters \
        15.2 \
                3.14   Cleaning/maintenance of etc.). \
                       cooling system and \
                       cooling channels in the \
                       die. \
\
-100 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                            CQI-9 \
\
                                                  Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
                                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
AIAG \
\
       Related \
Item # HTSA                                 Category/Process Steps \
      Question # \
                                                   REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                IN-PROCESS/ FINAL \
 4.0            TEST PARAMETERS   BOX Type Furnace BOX Type Furnace Continuous Atmosphere   OK / NOK / NA \
                                  (Single-Chamber) (Multi-Chamber) Furnace       Generation \
               Microstructure shall be \
               checked at a low \
                                                 Daily per furnace \
               magnification of 100X and \
                                                 (chamber). May \
         1.4   a high magnification of \
 14.1                            Daily per furnace. rotate chambers but Daily per furnace. \
        2.15   400X or above. \
                                                 minimum each \
               Microstructure visual \
                                                 chamber per week. \
               references shall be \
               available. \
\
                                                 Daily per furnace \
                                                 (chamber). May \
         1.4   Decarburization (for bare \
 14.2                            Daily per furnace. rotate chambers but Daily per furnace. \
         2.15 steel only). \
                                                 minimum each \
                                                 chamber per week. \
\
                                                 Daily per furnace \
               Coating Thickness, Layer          (chamber). May \
         1:4 \
 14.3          Evaluation (for coated Daily per furnace. rotate chambers but Daily per furnace. \
         2.15 \
               material).                        minimum each \
                                                 chamber per week. \
\
                                                 At start up (per \
                                                 cavity) and every 4 \
                                  At start up (per hours minimum (per At start up (per \
         1.4                      cavity) and every 4 cavity). May rotate cavity) and every 4 \
 14.4          Hardness \
         2.15                     hours minimum (per chambers but hours minimum (per \
                                  cavity).       minimum each   cavity). \
                                                 chamber every 48 \
                                                 hours. \
\
               Mechanical (Tensile, Yield,                      As \
         1.4                      As required by As required by   required by \
 14.5           % Elongation) - when \
         2.15                     Customer.      Customer.      Customer. \
               specified. \
\
                                                   REQUIREMENTS / FREQUENCY \
                PRESS AND QUENCH \
  5.0                             BOX Type Furnace BOX Type Furnace Continuous . Atmosphere \'d3K / NOK / NA \
                 TEST PARAMETERS \
                                   (Single-Chamber) (Multi-Chamber) Furnace      Generation \
\
               Press and Quenching \
\
               Die - Segment Wear \
         2.15 \
 15.1          managed to maintain Per maintenance and equipment plan. \
         3.14 \
    .          desired properties. \
\
               Cooling System check. \
               Cooling media \
               contamination. \
         2.15                     Per maintenance and equipment plan (tubes, channels, filters \
 15.2 .        Cleaning/maintenance of \
         3.14                     etc.). \
               cooling system and \
               cooling channels in the \
               die. \
\
                                                                                                    -101- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
     GLOSSARY OF TERMS \
\
    In the context of this document, the following definitions shall apply: \
    Accuracy: The closeness of agreement between a measured quantity value and a true quantity value. \
     Adjustment: Set of operations carried out on a measuring system so that it provides prescribed \
    indications corresponding to given values of a quantity to be measured. \
    ALAG: Automotive Industry Action Group. \
    Alternative TUS Testing Methods - Testing processes which are intended to provide adequate objective \
    evidence to verify the temperature uniformity, qualified work zone(s), and qualified operating \
    temperature range(s) of thermal processing equipment in the specific instances where it is not possible or \
    practical to traverse or insert TUS test thermocouples through or into the work zone. Alternative TUS \
     Testing Methods include 'Property Surveys' and 'Site-Developed Alternative TUS Testing Methods'. \
    Apparent Hardness - Used in sintered materials. The value obtained by testing with standard \
    indentation hardness equipment (macro hardness testing). Since the reading is a composite of pores and \
    solid material, it is usually lower than that of solid material of the same composition and condition. \
    As Found Data: Calibration data collected prior to adjusting (see Pre Adjustment Calibration). \
    As Left Data: Calibration data collected after any required adjustment however, these values may be the \
    same as the As Found Data if no adjustments were made/required (see Post Adjustment Calibration). \
    ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials. \
    Atmosphere: Any gas that may be introduced into a thermal process furnace with the objective of \
    providing, for example, a surface protection or surface modification. \
    Base Metal Thermocouple: Thermocouple composed primarily of base metals and their alloys. \
    Examples of more common base metal thermocouples include E, J, K, N, and T. \
    Batch: A quantity of parts or material processed in a single load at the same time. \
    Bias: The intentional adjusting of the process variable'(PV) input value to a measuring device to correct \
    for such things as; calibration error, SAT error or to center a TUS results. See Offset. \
    Calculated SAT Difference: The difference between corrected and uncorrected readings taken during an \
    SAT as specified in Section P3.3 and Table P3.3.1 of this document. \
    Calibrated Master: A device that has been calibrated traceable to the National Institute of Standards and \
    Technology (NIST), or other national or international standards laboratory, and is used in turn to verify \
    the accuracy of another like device. The calibrated master shall have the same or higher accuracy as the \
    device to be tested. A certificate of calibration shall be on file. \
    Calibration: A calibration is a comparison between the values indicated by a measuring instrument, \
    measuring system, or measuring device and the corresponding values realized by standards or field test \
    equipment. See single-point calibration and multi-point calibration for further clarification. \
    As used herein, a calibration may also include verification that specified requirements, such as tolerances, \
    performance, or other decision criteria have been met. Calibration may also include actions to take when \
    requirements have not been met; e.g. a calibration adjustment. \
    Capability: The total range of inherent variation in a stable process. \
\
-102 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                             CQI-9 \
                                          Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                               Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Carbon Restoration: A heat treat atmosphere process with the proper carbon potential that will restore \
the surface of the steel to the proper carbon content. It is usually performed on raw material that has \
decarburization at the surface. This is not to be used as a re-processing process. \
Certificate: Documentation issued by an authoritative body attesting to a status or level of achievement. \
Certify: Confirm in a formal statement, for example a certificate of calibration. \
Compound Layer: See Nitride Layer \
Continuous Furnace: Any furnace where product is conveyed continuously from the charge end to the \
discharge end, by way of example this would include continuous belt furnaces. See Semi-Continuous \
furnace. \
Continuously Recording: To collect data in an uninterrupted fashion during the production process. \
Control Instrument: A device that operates automatically to regulate a controlled variable. Where the \
variable to be controlled is the temperature of process equipment the device is typically connected to a \
thermocouple. The process equipment would include for example ovens, furnaces, generators, quench \
baths, washers and refrigeration equipment. The device may or may not also record temperature. \
Control Thermocouple: A thermocouple connected to the temperature control instrument of the process \
equipment. For the purposes of this document may also include an RTD. \
Control Zone: That portion of the working zone in thermal processing equipment having a separate \
control thermocouple, control instrument and heat input/output device to control its temperature. In some \
instances the control zone may be separate from the working zone (e.g. retort furnaces). \
Controlled Temperature Liquid Bath: Thermal processing equipment containing a liquid that is heated \
to the desired temperature. Product is normally immersed in the liquid. \
Corrected Reading: Data that has been adjusted to compensate for known error in the test equipment \
and/or test thermocouple(s) either by electronic methods or mathematical correction. Same as corrected \
data. \
Corrected Temperature: See Corrected Reading. \
Correction Factor: The number of degrees determined from the most recent calibration that is added to \
the temperature reading of a thermocouple, or an instrument or a combination thereof (system) to obtain \
true temperature. \
In the context of this document a correction factor is the algebraic opposite of error/deviation (e.g. +2.0\'b0\uc0\u8451  \
of error/deviation will result in a correction factor of -2.0\uc0\u8451 ). \
Critical Spare Parts List: A list of service parts critical for the operation of equipment. \
Cross-Functional Team: A team of employees that represent the different functions within an \
organization. The team will typically consist of an operator, line supervision, process engineer, \
metallurgist, and quality personnel. \
Customer: The recipient of the organization's or supplier's product or service. \
Customer Requirements: This term refers to the requirements or specifications from the original \
equipment manufacturer (typically the automobile company). These may be identified in the contract or \
purchase order, in engineering standards, part specifications, etc. \
Cycling: A periodic repeated variation in a controlled variable or process action. See Temperature \
Pattern. \
\
                                                                                  -103- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
    Deviation: In the context of this document, the difference between the uncorrected indicated temperature \
    and the true temperature. See Error. \
    Degradation: The gradual shift of an attribute or operating characteristic that may lead to a point where \
    the device can no longer fulfill its intended purpose. The degradation of thermocouples for example, is \
    commonly accelerated by their unprotected exposure to atmospheres typically found in industrial process \
    applications (e.g. lack of protection tube where one is required or a damaged protection tube, etc.). \
    Dew Pointer: A meter especially suited for measuring the dew point of carbon-bearing atmospheres. \
    Dew point is used to indirectly determine the carbon potential of the atmosphere. \
    Diffusion Layer: See Nitride Layer \
    Digital Instrumentation: An instrument that displays or presents the values of process variable \
    measurements in a digitized form (in numbers). \
    Dry Contact Press Hardening: A process where a work piece (blank) that has been heated to an \
    elevated temperature is formed and quenched at the same time. The blank is typically a thin section \
    material with excellent formability. Quenching is achieved by direct contact with a die that is internally \
    cooled with a suitable medium. The die is used in conjunction with a high tonnage press and relatively \
    short heat treat cycles are used. \
    Energy Monitor: An electronic monitor that measures and displays the actual energy delivered to the \
    induction heating coil. \
    Error: In process instrumentation, the algebraic difference between the-indication and the true value of \
    the measured signal. \
    Equilibrium: A state of balance. In the context of SAT testing, equilibrium is recognized when the \
    control thermocouple and the test thermocouple have achieved the same relative constant temperature and \
    exhibit similar cycling characteristics. \
    Expendable Thermocouples: Thermocouple wire typically insulated with ceramic fiber cloth, glass \
    braid, or polyvinyl materials. Most commonly provided on spools. \
    External Offset/Bias: The intentional adjusting of a measuring device through manually entered set \
    point changes (see Bias). \
    Field Test Instrument: A portable measurement standard that meets all the requirements of Table P2.1 \
    and is used routinely to calibrate control, monitoring and recoding instruments found on thermal \
    processing equipment. It is also used in the performance of SATs and TUSs. \
    Final Value: See As-Left Data. \
    Flow Control: Device to control or monitor atmosphere or liquid flow into the process. May include, for \
    example, flow meters or flow scopes. \
    Fluidized Bed Furnace: A furnace that contains a dynamic mixture of gas and/or vapor and minute \
    solid particles of such a size that the mixture resembles a fluid in motion. Product is normally immersed \
    in the fluidized medium. \
    Furnace: Equipment used for the thermal processing of materials and parts. \
    Furnace Modifications: Actions taken that change the furnace from its original documented state. \
    Examples of furnace modifications that could alter the temperature uniformity characteristics of the \
    furnace and shall require an additional TUS would include: \
           \'b7   Increase in the maximum qualified operating temperature \
\
-104 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                              CQI-9 \
                                           Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
       \'b7 Decrease in the minimum qualified operating temperature \
       \'b7   Change in burner size, number, type or location \
       \'b7   Change in heating element number, type or location \
       \'b7 Changes to airflow (baffle positions, fan speed, fan quantity, etc.) \
       \'b7   Change of refractory thickness \
       \'b7 New refractory with different thermal properties \
       \'b7 Change of vacuum furnace hot zone design or materials \
       \'b7 Change of control sensor location \
       \'b7 Change of combustion pressure settings from original settings \
       \'b7   Temperature control scheme changes (proportional vs. high-low/on-off) \
       \'b7 Changes in temperature control tuning constants \
       \'b7   Work zone volume increase covering area not previously tested \
       \'b7 Work zone location change covering area not previously tested \
Furnace Repairs: Maintenance actions that restore the furnace to its original documented condition. If \
repairs are not expected to impact the temperature uniformity characteristics of the furnace an additional \
TUS shall not be required. \
Examples of furnace repairs that would not require an additional TUS would include: \
       \'b7 Replacing a burner with an identical burner \
       \'b7 Replacing a heating element with an identical heating element \
       \'b7 Refractory repair using material with identical thermal properties \
       \'b7 Replacing a control thermocouple without changing its documented location \
       \'b7 Replacing heating system components (gas regulator, valve, metering device, etc.) with \
          identical components and settings \
       \'b7 Restoring original documented combustion pressure settings \
       \'b7 Restoring original documented control tuning constants \
       \'b7 Replacing a controller with an identical controller with the same tuning constants \
       \'b7 System accuracy test failures \
       \'b7 Correction of furnace pressure control problem \
       \'b7 Repair of furnace door seals \
\
Grace Period: A permissible duration of time beyond the required calibration or testing interval due date \
during which testing may occur \
\
Heat: See Steel Mill Heat \
Heat Sink: A mass of material intended to represent simulated product and shall possess the highest \
thermal conductivity / heat transfer characteristics of the material predominantly processed in the furnace \
under test. \
Heat Treater: An organization that performs heat treating to production and/or service parts. The heat \
treating may be internal or "captive" to a manufacturing organization, or a separate commercial heat \
treating supplier. \
\
                                                                                    -105- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
    HTSA: Heat Treat System Assessment. \
    Infrared: Thermal radiation. Every body with a temperature above absolute zero, emits, as a function of \
    its temperature, infrared radiation. Infrared, or IR devices, measure thermal radiation emitted from a body \
    to determine its temperature. \
    Initial Value: See As-Found Data. \
    Internal Offset/Bias: The intentional adjusting of the process variable (PV) input value of a measuring \
    device through electronic or software means (see Bias). \
    Interpolation: Determining correction factor values for points between the highest calibration \
    temperature and the lowest calibration temperature. \
    IR: Infrared. \
    Laboratory Furnace: A furnace used solely for determining response to heat treatment as required by \
    material specifications. \
    Load Sensor: A thermocouple that is attached to, inserted into or buried in the production material or a \
    representation of the production material and supplies temperature data to process instrumentation. \
    Lot: Identification of a defined quantity of product manufactured or processed together under the same \
    conditions that use the same material (e.g. same heat number) and specifications with uniform \
    characteristics that enable traceability to the heat treat process to a given point in time. This provides \
    traceability for potential containment activities associated with thermal processing issues. \
    Measuring Junction: The electrical connection between the two legs of a thermocouple, typically \
    twisted or welded, that is immersed in the medium whose temperature is to be measured. Also called the \
    hot junction. \
    Monitor: To observe or measure the status or quantity of something continuously or at regular intervals \
    so that corrections to a process or condition may be made without delay if the quantity varies outside of \
    prescribed or desired limits. Objective evidence shall be provided to support this activity. \
    Monitoring Instrument: An instrument used to measure or sense the status or magnitude of one or more \
    process variables for the purpose of obtaining useful information. In the context of this document \
    examples would include analyzers, indicators, alarms, or limits. \
    Monitoring Sensor: A sensor connected to a monitoring instrument. \
    Multi-point Calibration: A calibration performed by sourcing (as opposed to measuring) simulated \
    signals at multiple test points. Signals from a standard or field test instrument are sourced to a measuring \
    instrument, measuring system, or measuring device that represent the low, mid and high points of the \
    range of the measuring instrument, system, or device being calibrated. See Calibration. A diagram \
    representing a typical multi-point calibration is given below. \
\
-106 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                               CQI-9 \
                                            Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                 Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
                                           MULTI-POINT CALIBRATION METHOD \
                                  PROCESS INSTRUMENT \
\
                                                     PROCESS THERMOCOUPLE \
                                                THE PROCESS THERMOCOUPLE \
                        SIGNALS ARE GENERATED BY THE IS DISCONNECTED FROM THE \
                        TEST INSTRUMENT AND SOURCED PROCESS INSTRUMENT \
                         TO THE PROCESS INSTRUMENT \
\
                                                 NOTE: \
                                                 METHOD REQUIRES AN \
                                                 INTERRUPTION OF PROCESS \
\
                                    FIELD TEST INSTRUMENT \
\
Nitride Layer: The total depth of Nitride penetration measured from the surface of the steel into the core \
material. Typical processes are Nitriding, Ferritic Nitrocarburizing, Plasma Nitriding, etc. The Nitride \
 Layer thickness is comprised of the following sub-layers: \
\
       \'b7   OXIDE LAYER: The outermost layer developed on the surface of parts after exposing them \
          to a controlled oxidation treatment following the formation of a nitride or ferritic \
          nitrocarburized case. This oxide layer can be developed after gas, salt or plasma nitriding \
          processes. The purpose of the layer is to provide improved corrosion resistance for the parts. \
       \'b7   COMPOUND LAYER: Also referred to as the white layer. The outermost layer of a nitrided \
           steel before oxidation treatments. This layer is generally very thin (typically 2-50 microns \
          thick) and improves the tribological (wear and anti-galling) properties and corrosion \
          resistance of the steel. The compound layer is typically high in hardness and thus brittle in \
           nature. \
\
       \'b7   WHITE LAYER: Also referred to as the compound layer. \
\
       \'b7   DIFFUSION LAYER: The total depth of Nitride penetration underneath the compound \
          layer. This layer provides improved fatigue strength and load carrying ability and supports \
          the compound layer of the nitrided part. \
       \'b7   TRANSITION LAYER: This layer is part of the diffusion layer however can be prominent \
          in appearance in some steels but not in others. The transition layer is located between the \
          diffusion layer and the core metal. This layer has the lowest concentration of diffusion and \
          does not add significantly to the overall properties of a nitrided layer. \
\
                                                                                     -107- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                         AIAG \
\
                                             Oxide Layer \
\
                                           Compound Layer \
\
                                           Diffusion Layer \
\
                                           Transition Layer \
\
                                             Base Metal \
\
                        Schematic of Layers that may be present in a Nitrided Steel \
                                            (Not to Scale) \
\
    Noble Metal Thermocouple: A thermocouple whose elements are made of platinum or platinum- \
    rhodium and their alloys (Types B, R, and S). Although functionally different, for the purposes of this \
    document platinum RTDs are included in this definition. \
    Nonconforming Product: Product that does not conform to the customer requirements. \
    Non-Contact Thermometry: The measuring of thermal radiation emitted from a target object to \
    determine its surface temperature. A non-contact thermometry sensor/device measures the temperature of \
    a target object while a contact thermometry sensor (thermocouple) measures the temperature of itself. \
    Non-expendable Thermocouples: Thermocouples with ceramic insulators over bare thermocouple wire \
    or thermocouple wires placed in a magnesium oxide mineral insulation and encased in a metal covering \
    (MgO). \
    Observation: The act or practice of noting and recording some fact or event, often involving the \
    measurement of some quantity with suitable instruments. \
    Off Set: The intentional adjusting of the process variable (PV) input value to a measuring device to \
    correct for such things as; calibration error, SAT error or to center a TUS results. See Bias. \
    Over-Temperature Instrumentation: Temperature instrumentation installed in a furnace to monitor \
    and detect when a safe operating temperature is exceeded. Its purpose is to prevent fire hazards, loss of \
    equipment and damage to materials being processed. Same as temperature high limit. \
    Oven: See furnace \
    Oxide Layer: See Nitride Layer \
    Oxidizing Burn-Out: A process to remove any residual ammonia from the furnace. The process usually \
    involves removing most of the carbon-bearing protective atmosphere and then introducing oxygen. \
    Oxygen Probe: A measuring device that determines the partial pressure of oxygen in carbon-bearing \
    atmospheres. This measurement provides an indirect measurement for the carbon potential of the \
    atmosphere. \
    Pack Density: Product mass represented by a specific area or volume of the work zone. Changes to pack \
    density may impact temperature uniformity characteristics. \
\
-108 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                  Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Parts Heat Treatment: Heating or cooling a specific metal or alloy in an effort to obtain specific \
physical or mechanical properties by a source other than the raw material producer. \
Post-Adjustment Calibration: A comparison between the values indicated by a measuring instrument \
or measuring system and the corresponding values realized by standards or field test equipment after \
adjustments have been made in an attempt to eliminate or minimize error. The calculated difference in \
these values represents as-left data. \
Pre-Adjustment Calibration: A comparison between the values indicated by a measuring instrument or \
measuring system and the corresponding values realized by standards or field test equipment before any \
adjustments are made. The calculated difference in these values represents the as-found data. \
Preventive Maintenance Program or PM Program: A maintenance program specifically intended to \
prevent faults from occurring. A sound PM program shall also contain elements of a predictive nature \
whereby items having a potential to adversely affect furnace temperature uniformity, efficiency and/or \
quality are documented and resolved. The frequency of PM checks is established based upon experience \
and/or the equipment manufacturer's recommendations. \
Primary Standard Thermocouple: A test thermocouple with accuracies of +0.6\uc0\u8451  (+1.0\'baF) or+0.1% \
of reading, whichever is greater, with calibration directly traceable to the NIST or other national standards \
laboratory. \
Primary Standard: A measurement standard established through calibration with respect to a \
Reference Standard for a quantity of the same kind and with accuracies of +0.05\uc0\u8451  (+0.1\'baF) or +0.015% \
of reading, whichever is greater, with calibration directly traceable to the NIST or other national standards \
laboratory. \
Probe: Interchangeable with sensor when used as a noun, e.g. oxygen probe or oxygen sensor, carbon \
probe or carbon sensor. References SAT methodologies when used as a verb, e.g. Probe Method A. \
\
Process Cycle: For a continuous or semi-continuous furnace the process cycle concludes when product \
completes its traverse through the furnace. For a batch furnace the process cycle concludes when the \
applicable process recipe time requirement has been achieved. \
\
Process Record: Data collected by a recording instrument to permanently document the value of a \
process variable. This data may be in electronic or hardcopy format and presented in a tabular or graphic \
arrangement. \
Process Tables: Tables in the HTSA that list the required process controls for the heat treat processes \
covered. These tables contain minimum requirements. \
Product Properties: Product characteristics affected by heat treat (hardness, microstructure and case \
depth, etc.). \
Property Survey: An Alternative TUS Testing Method; A series of system specific tests or testing \
processes where material/part characteristics that are sensitive to process temperature variations are \
identified and routinely evaluated. \
\
This testing process is intended to verify the temperature uniformity, qualified work zone(s), and qualified \
operating temperature range(s) of a furnace or oven system in the specific instance where it is not possible \
or practical to traverse or insert TUS test thermocouples through or into the work zone. \
\
Pyrometry: In its simplest of terms, pyrometry is the measurement of temperature. However, for the \
purposes of this document, the term "pyrometry" is intended to encompass instruments that control, \
\
                                                                                      -109- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9 \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                           AIAG \
\
    monitor, and record temperature to include other thermal process control equipment such as IR devices \
    and thermocouples. The "pyrometry" section of this document addresses the maintenance, testing, and \
    management requirements of thermal process control instruments and equipment. These requirements \
    address: thermocouple accuracy and replacement intervals, instrument accuracy and calibration intervals, \
    system accuracy testing, and temperature uniformity testing. \
\
    Qualified Operating Temperature Range: The temperature range in which a furnace is qualified to \
    process material based upon temperature uniformity survey test results confirming compliance with \
    Process Table requirements. \
    Qualified Work Zone: The defined portion of a furnace volume where at a minimum, temperature \
    uniformity conforms to the requirements of the applicable process table and as further defined by the heat \
    treater. \
    Quenchability Check: A measure of the cooling dynamics of the quench media. A quenchometer is the. \
    inspection machine that displays the cooling curve of the quench media. \
    Quench Delay: The time delay between the end of the heat treat cycle and the start of the quench operation. \
    For furnace heat treating, this is the total time elapsed from the start of the furnace door(s) opening until \
    the parts are at the bottom of the quench tank. For induction hardening systems, this is the time from the \
    end of the heat cycle to the start of the quench flow (or when the parts enter a quench system). See also \
    Process Table C, item C3.5. \
    Quenching: Rapid cooling. \
    Quenching Medium: The medium used to quench parts after heat treating, e.g. air, oil, polymer, and \
    water. \
    Quench System: A system facilitating the rapid cooling of heat treated product. \
    Readability: The smallest value that can be read on a scale or displayed on an instrument (least \
    significant digit). \
    Recipe: This term is typically used when a computer-based system sets and controls the process \
    parameters, e.g. temperature, cycle time, carbon potential. The 'recipe' refers to the settings of the process \
    parameters. \
    Recording Instrument: An instrument used to collect and document the values of one or more process \
    variables (e.g. . temperature, carbon potential, dew point, O2). Examples of a recording instrument would \
    include chart recorders, video graphic recorders, or data acquisition systems. \
    Recording Thermocouple: A thermocouple that is connected to a recording instrument. \
    Redundant Oxygen Probe: A secondary oxygen probe that monitors the primary oxygen probe. \
    Reference Standard: A measurement standard designated for the calibration of other measurement \
    standards for quantities of the same kind and meeting the requirements of Table P3.2.1. Typically used \
    for the calibration of Primary Standard instruments: \
    Resident SAT Thermocouple: A non-expendable system accuracy test thermocouple meeting the \
    requirements of Table P3.1.3 that is not removed from its test location between system accuracy tests. \
    The resident thermocouple shall be read with a Field Test instrument. \
    Resident thermocouples used with Probe Methods A and B shall be replaced at a minimum of each 180 . \
    days for temperatures below or equal to 980\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF) and each 90 days for temperatures greater than \
    980\'b0\uc0\u8451  (1800\'baF). See Table P3.1.5. \
\
-110 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                  Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
Resident thermocouples used with the Comparative Method shall be replaced in accordance with Table \
 P3.1.1. \
 Resolution: The smallest difference between indications of a displaying device that can be meaningfully \
 distinguished. \
 Reprocessing: Any process that is performed on nonconforming product so that it will meet the \
specified requirements. \
 Responsibility Matrix: A responsibility matrix defines the designated personnel for all key functions. \
 This matrix includes the primary and secondary designees. \
Retort Furnace: A furnace that employs a retort or muffle in which the product being heat treated is \
contained. \
Rework: See reprocessing. \
RTD: Acronym for a resistance thermometer device. A temperature sensing device utilizing resistance \
measurements to determine temperature. See also Thermocouple. : \
 Salt Bath Furnace: A furnace utilizing molten salt as the heat medium. \
SAT Difference Calculations: See Calculated SAT Difference. \
Secondary Standard: A measurement standard established through calibration with respect to a Primary \
 Standard for a quantity of the same kind with accuracies of +0.2\'baC (+0.3\'baF) or +0.05% of reading, \
whichever is greater, with calibration directly traceable to the NIST or other national standards laboratory. \
 Typically used for the calibration of Field Test instruments. \
Secondary Standard Thermocouple: A test thermocouple with accuracies of +0.6\uc0\u8451  (+1.0\'baF) or +0.1% \
of reading, whichever is greater, with calibration directly traceable to the NIST or other national standards \
laboratory. \
Semi-Continuous Furnace: A furnace where product is conveyed at regular time intervals or indexed \
from the charge end to the discharge end. By way of example this would include pusher type furnaces. \
Set-up: The preparation and adjustment of machines for an assigned task. The manner in which the \
elements of components of a machine, apparatus or system are arranged, designed or assembled. Also \
applies to arrangement of thermocouples for TUS. \
Shop Traveler: A document usually created in the receiving department for each batch or lot of parts \
received. The document defines the process routing of the parts. \
Signature Monitor: An electronic monitor used to monitor induction heat treating systems. The monitor \
plots the energy unit, e.g. voltage or kilowatt, vs. time or distance. \
Sign-off: An initial, name, or other suitable indication confirming that an event was observed and/or \
reviewed and approved. \
Single-point Calibration: A calibration performed by measuring (as opposed to sourcing) a signal at a \
single test point. A signal representing a typical operating temperature or other typical process variable is \
measured simultaneously by the measuring instrument, measuring system, or measuring device, and a \
standard or field test instrument. See Calibration. A diagram representing a typical single-point \
calibration is given below. \
\
                                                                                       -111- \
<<<\page \
\
      CQI-9 \
      Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                          AIAG \
\
                                                  SINGLE-POINT CALIBRATION METHOD \
                                  PROCESS INSTRUMENT \
\
                                                             PROCESS THERMOCOUPLE \
\
                                     THE SIGNAL GENERATED BY THE PROCESS \
                                        THERMOCOUPLE IS MEASURED \
                                    SIMULTANEOUSLY BY THE TEST INSTRUMENT \
                                       AND THE PROCESS INSTRUMENT \
\
                               NOTE: \
                               METHOD TYPICALLY \
                               PERFORMED IN HARMONY \
                               WITH PROCESS                 FIELD TEST INSTRUMENT \
\
    Sinter Hardening: Heating a mass of fine particles for a prolonged time below the melting point, \
    usually to cause agglomeration, coupled with, quenching and tempering steps to produce increased \
    strength. \
    Sintering: Heating a mass of fine particles for a prolonged time below the melting point, usually to cause \
    agglomeration. CQI-9 does not apply to Sintering where hardening is not performed, unless required by \
    customer specific requirements. \
    Site-Developed Alternative TUS Testing Method: An Alternative TUS Testing Method; A site- \
    developed, non-standard test methodology which has been approved and thoroughly validated to show \
    that a specific thermal processing system is capable of consistently meeting specified process \
    requirements. \
     This testing approach is intended to verify the temperature uniformity, qualified work zone(s), and \
    qualified operating temperature range(s) of a furnace or oven system in the specific instance where \
    Property Surveys are not possible or meaningful and it is not possible or practical to traverse or insert \
    TUS test thermocouples through or into the work zone in a manner explicitly defined within CQI-9. \
    A detailed, documented procedure is required for this test method. \
    Soak Time: The total time elapsed during a single uninterrupted, continuous soak period that concludes \
    at the completion of the process cycle. \
    Soak Period: The span of time during which all Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) test \
    thermocouples and the associated furnace temperature thermocouples are within the TUS tolerance values \
    established in the applicable Process Table. \
    By definition, none of the thermocouples can reside outside of these established tolerance values during \
    the soak period. \
    The soak period begins as soon as all thermocouples are within the TUS tolerance values established in \
    the applicable Process Table and concludes at the completion of the process cycle or when any \
    thermocouple falls below the lower tolerance level or exceeds the upper tolerance level established in the \
    applicable Process Table. \
\
-112 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                                 CQI-9 \
                                             Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                                  Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
 Special Characteristics: Product characteristics or manufacturing process parameters that can affect \
 safety or compliance with regulations, fit, functions, performance, or subsequent processing of product. \
 Refer to customer-specific requirements. \
 Stabilization: In the context of TUS testing, the condition wherein all control thermocouples and TUS \
 test thermocouples are within the allowable TUS tolerance span as indicated in the appropriate Process \
 Table and the controllers are cycling and/or maintaining the set temperature in each zone. \
 In addition, for unloaded furnaces, no TUS test thermocouple may exhibit a continuous upward or \
 downward temperature trend. \
 For loaded furnaces some TUS thermocouples may exhibit a slow rise in temperature toward the set \
 temperature. Provided this rise in temperature does not continue beyond the set temperature this rise in \
 temperature of TUS thermocouples towards the set temperature meets the requirements for stabilization. \
 Steel Mill Heat: The stated full tonnage or volume of steel obtained from a single melt, which is \
 continuously cast or ingot cast. \
 System Accuracy Test (SAT): An on-site, in-situ comparison of temperature values generated by a \
 control thermocouple against those temperature values generated by a system accuracy test thermocouple \
 or other permanently installed thermocouple in the same furnace zone in accordance with the \
requirements and methods established in Section P3.3. \
 System Accuracy Test (SAT) Thermocouple: A thermocouple used in the performance of system \
 accuracy testing and meeting the requirements of Table P3.1.3. \
 Temperature Controller: The instrument used to control the temperature within a furnace zone. \
 Temperature Pattern: A periodic repeated temperature variation within the thermal processing \
 equipment. See Cycling. \
 Temperature Uniformity: The temperature variation within the qualified furnace work zone in \
relationship to set point temperature. For retort furnaces where a thermocouple in the retort is used to \
 control temperature, the temperature variation is with respect to the thermocouple in the retort and not to \
 the furnace set temperature. \
 Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS): A test or a series of tests where calibrated field test \
 instrumentation and calibrated test thermocouples are used to determine temperature variation within the \
 qualified work zone. This testing process is intended to verify the temperature uniformity, qualified work \
 zone(s), and qualified operating temperature range(s) of furnace and oven systems. \
\
       Note: Some Alternative TUS Testing Methods may or may not require the utilization of test \
              thermocouples. (see Alternative TUS Testing Methods) \
\
 Temperature Uniformity Survey (TUS) Thermocouple: A thermocouple used in the performance of \
 temperature uniformity survey testing and meeting the requirements of Table P3.1.3. \
 Temper Delay: The time delay form when the parts exit the quench tank to the time when the parts are \
 placed in the tempering furnace. \
 Thermal Processing: Any process in which product is subjected to controlled temperatures for the \
purpose of altering structural and/or mechanical characteristics impacting the final properties or condition \
of the product. \
\
                                                                                      -113- \
<<<\page \
\
     CQI-9                                                                              - \
     Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
     Fourth Edition, June 2020                                         AIAG \
\
    Thermocouple: A sensor used for measuring temperature consisting of two dissimilar metals which \
    produce an electromotive force (EMF) roughly proportional to the temperature difference between their \
    hot and cold junction ends. Although functionally different, for the purposes of this document platinum \
    RTDs are included in this definition. \
    Gas Analyzer: An instrument that measures carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and methane in carbon- \
    bearing atmospheres. This measurement provided an indirect measurement of the carbon potential of the \
    atmosphere. \
    Three-Valve Fail-Safe Vent (for ammonia lines): An arrangement of three valves that prevents \
    ammonia from inadvertently entering the furnace during carburizing or neutral hardening operations. The \
    valves are arranged in such a way that, when the ammonia line to the furnace is shut off, any ammonia \
    that might leak past the valve is vented to the atmosphere and thus prevented from entering the furnace. \
\
                          Vent                                 Vent \
\
                                Valve 3                              Valve 3 \
               Furnace                               Furnace \
\
                    Valve 1      Valve 2                 Valve 1      Valve 2 \
\
             Figure 1 - Valves 1 and 2          Figure 2 - Valves 1 and 2 are closed \
             are opened to allow                to prevent ammonia flow to furnace. If \
             ammonia flow into the              Valve 2 inadvertently leaks, ammonia \
             furnace.                           is vented (Valve 3) to the atmosphere. \
\
    Traceable (or Traceability): The ability to relate measurement results through an unbroken chain of \
    calibration to NIST or equivalent agencies in countries outside the United States. \
    Trap Points: Areas in containers (baskets, fixtures, shipping boxes, etc.) or any equipment that may. \
    inadvertently trap parts, allowing the potential for parts to be mixed between batches. \
    Uncorrected Reading: Data that has not been adjusted to compensate for known error in the test \
    equipment and/or test thermocouple(s). Uncorrected data. \
    Use (of a thermocouple): One cycle of heating and cooling a thermocouple. For an SAT test \
    thermocouple a "use" would be one cycle of heating and cooling the thermocouple in an amount greater \
    than the normal control cycling around the set point temperature. For a TUS test thermocouple a "use" \
    would be one cycle of heating and cooling the thermocouple in an amount greater than the normal cycling \
    of the furnace temperature uniformity. For Load Sensing thermocouples a "use" is one furnace load cycle. \
    It is not a requirement to track uses for non-expendable control, monitoring and recording thermocouples. \
    Verification: Providing of objective evidence that a given item fulfils specified requirements. \
    Work Instructions: Instructions that describe work conducted in one function in a company, e.g. setup, \
    inspections, heat treat operations, process parameter tolerances, etc. The term "work instructions" is \
    synonymous with the term "job instructions". \
    Work Zone: The defined portion of a furnace volume where product is processed. The working zone. \
    That part of the furnace chamber which can be used for the desired process. \
\
-114 \
<<<\page \
\
                                                                         CQI-9 \
                                        Special Process: Heat Treat System Assessment \
 AIAG                                                           Fourth Edition, June 2020 \
\
  MAINTENANCE REQUEST FORM \
\
Name of Submitter:                                     Date: \
\
 Company: \
 Company Address: \
Phone:                       Fax:                      E-mail: \
\
 MAINTENANCE REQUEST \
Page Number of Change: \
\
Document Currently Reads: \
\
Recommended Changes/Should Read: \
\
Reason for Change (Use additional sheets if necessary): \
\
 Signature of Submitter: \
\
  DISPOSITION (AIAG USE ONLY) \
\
Manager's Recommendation: \
\
Final Disposition: \
\
 Comments: \
                                                                                      . \
\
 Note: Complete form and return to the AlAG Publication Specialist for consideration. \
         Automotive Industry Action Group . 4400 Town Center . Southfield, MI 48075 \
                   Telephone: (248) 358-3570 \'b7 eMail: Quality@aiag.org \
                                 Web: www.aiag.org \
\
                                                                             -115- \
<<<\
}